spl_product_data_elements:
  4387 First Aid Kit 4387 first aid Triple Antibiotic bacitracin zinc, polymyxin b sulfate, neomycin sulfate PETROLATUM POLYMYXIN B SULFATE POLYMYXIN B BACITRACIN ZINC BACITRACIN NEOMYCIN SULFATE NEOMYCIN Antiseptic Towelette benzalkonium chloride WATER BENZALKONIUM CHLORIDE BENZALKONIUM Ammonia inhalent ammonia inhalent ALCOHOL AMMONIA AMMONIA Alcohol Wipe isopropyl alcohol WATER ISOPROPYL ALCOHOL ISOPROPYL ALCOHOL Sodium Chloride sodium chloride WATER HYDROCHLORIC ACID SODIUM CHLORIDE SODIUM CATION CHLORIDE ION PVP Iodine Wipe povidone-iodine 10% WATER NONOXYNOL-9 POVIDONE-IODINE IODINE PAWS ethyl alcohol ALOE VERA LEAF WATER TROLAMINE ALCOHOL ALCOHOL Aspirin aspirin STEARIC ACID STARCH, CORN SILICON DIOXIDE CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL, UNSPECIFIED POVIDONE CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM CROSCARMELLOSE HYPROMELLOSE 2208 (100 MPA.S) MINERAL OIL TITANIUM DIOXIDE PROPYLENE GLYCOL ASPIRIN ASPIRIN FR21
active_ingredient:
  Triple Active ingredient Bacitracin zinc 400 units Neomycin sulfate (5 mg equivalent to 3.5 mg Neomycin base) Polymyxin B sulfate 5000 units
  BZK Wipe Active ingredient Benzalkonium chloride 0.13% w/v
  Alcohol Wipe Active ingredient Isopropyl alcohol 70%
  Ammonia Inhalent Active ingredient Ammonia 15%
  PVP Wipe Active ingredient Povidone-iodine 10% (equivalent to 1% titratable iodine)
  PAWS Active ingredient Ethyl alcohol 66.5%
  Aspirin Active ingredient Aspirin 325 mg (NSAID)* *nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug c
purpose:
  Triple Purpose First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic
  BZK Wipe Purpose First aid antiseptic
  Alcohol Wipe Purpose First aid antiseptic
  Ammonioa Inhalent Purpose Respiratory stimulant
  PVP Wipe Purpose First aid antiseptic
  PAWS Purpose Antiseptic
  Aspirin Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducerv
indications_and_usage:
  Triple Uses first aid to help prevent infection in: minor cuts scrapes burns
  BzK Wipe Uses Antiseptic cleansing of face, hands, and body without soap and water
  Indication and Usage NaCl Irrigant 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP is indicated for all general irrigation, washing, rinsing and dilution purposes which permit use of a sterile, nonpyrogenic electrolyte solution.
  Alcohol Wipe Uses first aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns
  Ammonia Inhalent Uses to prevent or treat fainting Keep out of reach of children If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
  PVP Wipe Uses first aid antiseptic to help prevent infection in minor cuts, scrapes and burns
  PAWS Uses for handwashing to decrease bacteria on skin whenever soap and water is not readily available
  Aspirin Uses temporarily reduces fever and relieves minor aches and pains associated with: a cold headache toothache muscular aches backache minor pain of arthritis premenstrual and menstrual periods
warnings:
  Triple Warnings For external use only Allergy aler t: do not use if you are allergic to any of the ingredients Do not use in the eyes over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have a deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if the condition persists or gets worse a rash or other allergic reaction develops you need to use longer than 1 week Keep out of the reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
  BZK Wipe Warnings For external use only Do not use in the eyes or over large areas of the body on mucous membranes on irritated skin in case of deep puncture wounds, animal bites or serious burns, consult a doctor longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if if irritation, redness or other symptoms develop the condition persists or gets worse Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
  Warnings NaCl Irrigant FOR IRRIGATION ONLY. NOT FOR INJECTION. Irrigating fluids have been demonstrated to enter the systemic circulation in relatively large volumes; thus, irrigation solutions must be regarded as systemic drugs. Absorption of large amounts can cause fluid and/or solute overload resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations, overhydration, congested states or pulmonary edema. The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of the administered parenteral solutions. The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentration. Do not warm above 150°F (66°C). After opening container, its contents should be used promptly to minimize the possibility of bacterial growth or pyrogen formation. Discard unused portion of irrigating solution since it contains no preservatives.
  Alcohol Wipe Warnings For external use only Flammable , keep away from fire and flame Do not use in or near eyes over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns When using this product do not use longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Stop use and consult a doctor if condition persists or gets worse Keep out of the reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away
  Ammonia Inhalent Warnings For external use only Do not use if you have breathing problems such as asthma or emphysema Stop use and ask a doctor if condition persists
  PVP Wipes Warnings For external use only. Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours irritation and redness develops Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
  PAWS Warnings For external use only Flammable: keep away from fire or flame Do not use in the eyes . If this happens, rinse thoroughly with water. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or redness develop and persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away
  Aspirin Warnings Reye's syndrome: Children and teenagers who have or are recovering from chicken pox or flu-like symptoms should not use this product. When using this product, if changes in behavior with nausea and vomiting occur, consult a doctor because these symptoms could be an early sign of Reye's syndrome, a rare but serious illness. Allergy alert : Aspirin may cause a severe allergic reaction which may include: hives facial swelling asthma (wheezing) shock Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you: are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take more or for a longer time than directed Do not use if you are allergic to aspirin or any other pain reliever/fever reducer Ask a doctor before use if stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis or kidney disease you are taking a diuretic you have asthma Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug for diabetes, gout or arthritis Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint vomit blood have bloody or black stools have stomach pain that does not get better pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present in the painful area ringing in the ears or loss of hearing occurs any new symptoms appear If pregnant or breast-feeding, If pregnant or breat-feeding , ask a health professional before use. It is especially important not to use aspirin during the last three months of pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away.
do_not_use:
  Do not use in the eyes over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have a deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns
  Do not use in the eyes or over large areas of the body on mucous membranes on irritated skin in case of deep puncture wounds, animal bites or serious burns, consult a doctor longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor
  Do not use in or near eyes over large areas of the body
  Do not use if you have breathing problems such as asthma or emphysema
  Do not use in the eyes . If this happens, rinse thoroughly with water.
  Do not use if you are allergic to aspirin or any other pain reliever/fever reducer
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if the condition persists or gets worse a rash or other allergic reaction develops you need to use longer than 1 week
  Stop use and ask a doctor if if irritation, redness or other symptoms develop the condition persists or gets worse
  Stop use and consult a doctor if condition persists or gets worse
  Stop use and ask a doctor if condition persists
  Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours irritation and redness develops
  Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or redness develop and persists for more than 72 hours
  Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint vomit blood have bloody or black stools have stomach pain that does not get better pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present in the painful area ringing in the ears or loss of hearing occurs any new symptoms appear
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of the reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
  Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
  Keep out of the reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away
  Keep out of reach of children If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
  Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away
  Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away.
dosage_and_administration:
  Triple Directions clean the affected area apply a small amount of the product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage
  BZK Wipe Directions tear open packet and use as a washcloth
  Dosage and Administration As required for irrigation. When used as a diluent, or vehicle for other drugs, the drug manufacturer's recommendations should be followed. Some additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist. When introducing additives, use aseptic techniques. Mix thoroughly. Do not store. Solutions should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permits.
  Alcohol Wipe Directions clean the affected area may be covered with a sterile bandage apply wipe to affeted are 1 to 3 times daily discard wipe after single use
  Ammonia Inhalent Directions hold inhalant away from face and crush ampoule between thumb and forefinger at position indicated on sleeve. hold near nostrils for inhalation of volatile vapor
  PVP Wipes Directions clean the affected area apply1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage if bandaged, let dry first discard wipe after single use
  PAWS Directions wet hands and wrists thoroughly for 15 seconds and allow to air dry always reseal after use children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product
  Aspirin Directions drink a full glass of water with each dose adults and children 12 years of age and older: take 1 or 2 tablets every 4 hours while symptoms last, not more than 12 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years of age: consult a doctor
spl_unclassified_section:
  Triple Other information store at 15 0 to 25 0 C (59 0 to 77 0 F) tamper evident sealed packets do not use if packet is torn or opened
  BZK Wipe Other information store at room temperature 15 0 to 30 0 C (59 0 - 86 0 F) do not reuse towelette
  Isotonic Solution for Irrigation. For Irrigation Only. Not for Injection.
  SPL Unclassified Section Rx only Revised: March 2009 PIC is a trademark of B. Braun Medical Inc.
  SPL Unclassified Section B. Braun Medical Inc. Irvine, CA 92614-5895 USA Made in USA Y36-002-699
  Alcohol Wipe Other information store at room temperature 15 0 to 25 0 C (59 0 to 77 0 F) do not use if packet is torn or opened
  Ammonia Inhalent Other information store at room temperature away from light
  PVP Wipes Other information do not use on individuals who are allergic or sensitive to iodine store at controlled temperature 59-86ºF (15-30ºC) do not use if pouch is open or torn
  Aspirin Other information store at room temperature 15° - 30°C (59° - 86°F) TAMPER EVIDIENT PACKETS - DO NOT USE IF OPEN OR TORN
  4387 346200/M Kit Contents 1 AMMONIA INHALANTS 10 PER 1 EYE DRESS PKT W/4 ADH STRIPS 1 ALCOHOL PREP PADS 10P 1 PVP IODINE WIPES 10 PER 1 NITRILE GLOVES 2PR BBP 2 O/H TAPE ADHESIVE TRI-CUT 4 BK GZ 4.5"X4.1YD6PLY RL ST MSO 1 FIRST AID GUIDE ASHI 2 EMERGENCY SURVIVAL BLANKET 2 BLOODSTOPPER 2 ABD COMBINE PAD 5" X 9" 2 ABD PADS 8"X10" STERILE 2 MULTI-TRAUMA DRESSING 12"X30" 1 BURN SHEET STERILE 60"X90" 1 SOD. CHLORIDE 0.9% 500ML EA 1 EMPTY BAG RED 12X12X10 1 LBL STOCK 6-3/8"X4" 1 LBL STOCK 4"X2-7/8" 1 LBL STOCK 3"x1-7/8" 1 EMER.YELLOW BLKT 54"X80" POLYP 1 BANDAGE PACK FOR KIT 1 ZIP LOCK BAG FOR KIT #2 1 ZIP LOCK BAG FOR KIT #3 2 SELF-ADH WRAP 3 X 5 YDS NORTH REV E 1 WATER-JEL BURN DRESSING 4 X 4 2 COLD PACK UNIT 4"X6" BULK 1 CPR MSK,WPS,GLVS 1
inactive_ingredient:
  Triple Inactive ingredient petrolatum
  BZK Wipe Inactive ingredient water
  Alcohol Wipe Inactive ingredient water
  Ammonia Inhalent Inactive ingredients alcohol USP, FD&C red #40, lavender oil, lemon oil fcc, nutmeg oil, purified water at room temperature away from light
  PVP Wipes Inactive inngredients nonoxynol 9, water
  PAWS Inactive ingredients aloe vera, fragrance, purified water, triethanolamine
  Aspirin Inactive ingredients corn starch, croscarmellose sodium*, hypromellose*, microcrystalline cellulose*, mineral oil*, polyethylene glycol*, povidone, propylene glycol, silicon dioxide, stearic acid*, titanium dioxide* *may contain these ingredients
questions:
  Triple Questions? 1-800-430-5490
  BZK Wipe Questions 1-800-430-5490
  Alcohol Wipe Questions 1-800-430-5490
  Ammonia Inhalent Questions or Comments? 1-800-430-5490
  PVP Wipes Questions 800-430-5490
  PAWS Questions 1-800-430-5490
  Aspirin Questions or Comments? 1-800-430-5490
description:
  NaCL Irrigant Description Each 100 mL contains: Sodium Chloride USP 0.9 g; Water for Injection USP qs pH adjusted with Hydrochloric Acid NF pH: 5.0 (4.5–7.0) Calculated Osmolarity: 310 mOsmol/liter Concentration of Electrolytes (mEq/liter): Sodium 154; Chloride 154 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP is sterile, nonpyrogenic, isotonic and contains no bacteriostatic or antimicrobial agents. The formula of the active ingredient is: Ingredient Molecular Formula Molecular Weight Sodium Chloride USP NaCl 58.44 The plastic container is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene formulated and developed for parenteral drugs. The copolymer contains no plasticizers and exhibits virtually no leachability. The plastic container is also virtually impermeable to vapor transmission and, therefore, requires no overwrap to maintain the proper drug concentration. The safety of the plastic container has been confirmed by biological evaluation procedures. The material passes Class Vl testing as specified in the U.S. Pharmacopeia for Biological Tests — Plastic Containers. These tests have shown that the container is nontoxic and biologically inert. The PIC™ Container is PVC-free and DEHP-free. Ingredient Molecular Formula Molecular Weight Sodium Chloride USP NaCl 58.44 The plastic container is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene formulated and developed for parenteral drugs. The copolymer contains no plasticizers and exhibits virtually no leachability. The plastic container is also virtually impermeable to vapor transmission and, therefore, requires no overwrap to maintain the proper drug concentration. The safety of the plastic container has been confirmed by biological evaluation procedures. The material passes Class Vl testing as specified in the U.S. Pharmacopeia for Biological Tests — Plastic Containers. These tests have shown that the container is nontoxic and biologically inert. The PIC™ Container is PVC-free and DEHP-free.
clinical_pharmacology:
  NaCL Irrigant Clinical Pharmacology 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP is utilized for a variety of clinical indications such as sterile irrigation of body cavities, tissues or wounds, indwelling urethral catheters, surgical drainage tubes, and for washing, rinsing or soaking surgical dressings, instruments and laboratory specimens. It also serves as a diluent or vehicle for drugs used for irrigation or other pharmaceutical preparations. 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP provides an isotonic saline irrigation identical in composition with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection USP (normal saline). Physiological irrigation solutions are considered generally compatible with living tissues and organs. Sodium, the major cation of the extracellular fluid, functions primarily in the control of water distribution, fluid balance, and osmotic pressure of body fluids. Sodium is also associated with chloride and bicarbonate in the regulation of the acid-base equilibrium of body fluid. Chloride, the major extracellular anion, closely follows the metabolism of sodium, and changes in the acid-base balance of the body are reflected by changes in the chloride concentration.
contraindications:
  NaCl Irrigant Contraindications 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP is not for injection by usual parenteral routes. An electrolyte solution should not be used for irrigation during electrosurgical procedures.
precautions:
  Precautions NaCl Irrigant General Use aseptic technique when preparing and administering sterile irrigation solutions. Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact. Do not use for irrigation that may result in absorption of large amounts of fluid into the blood. Caution should be observed when the solution is used for continuous irrigation or allowed to "dwell" inside body cavities because of possible absorption into the blood stream and the production of circulatory overload. When used for irrigation via appropriate irrigation equipment, the administration set should be attached promptly. Unused portions should be discarded and a fresh container of appropriate size used for the start up of each cycle or repeat procedure. For repeated irrigations of urethral catheters, a separate container should be used for each patient. Laboratory Tests Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance, electrolyte concentrations, and acid-base balance after prolonged irrigation, when fluid absorption is suspected, or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation. Drug Interactions Some additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist.When introducing additives, use aseptic technique.Mix thoroughly. Do not store. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Studies with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential, mutagenic potential, or effects on fertility. Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP. It is also not known whether 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed. Labor and Delivery Safety and effectiveness of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP during labor and delivery have not been established. Caution should be exercised, and the fluid balance, glucose and electrolyte concentrations, and acid-base balance, of both mother and fetus should be evaluated periodically or whenever warranted by the condition of the patient or fetus. Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk, caution should be exercised when 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP is administered to a nursing woman. Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP in pediatric patients have not been established. Its limited use in pediatric patients has been inadequate to fully define proper dosage and limitations for use. Geriatric Use Clinical studies of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP did not include a sufficient number of patients age 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects. In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function.Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to monitor renal function.Frequent laboratory determinations and clinical evaluations are recommended to monitor changes in blood glucose, electrolyte concentrations, and renal function.
laboratory_tests:
  Laboratory Tests Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance, electrolyte concentrations, and acid-base balance after prolonged irrigation, when fluid absorption is suspected, or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation.
drug_interactions:
  Drug Interactions Some additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist.When introducing additives, use aseptic technique.Mix thoroughly. Do not store.
carcinogenesis_and_mutagenesis_and_impairment_of_fertility:
  Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Studies with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential, mutagenic potential, or effects on fertility.
pregnancy:
  Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP. It is also not known whether 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed.
labor_and_delivery:
  Labor and Delivery Safety and effectiveness of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP during labor and delivery have not been established. Caution should be exercised, and the fluid balance, glucose and electrolyte concentrations, and acid-base balance, of both mother and fetus should be evaluated periodically or whenever warranted by the condition of the patient or fetus.
nursing_mothers:
  Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk, caution should be exercised when 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP is administered to a nursing woman.
pediatric_use:
  Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP in pediatric patients have not been established. Its limited use in pediatric patients has been inadequate to fully define proper dosage and limitations for use.
geriatric_use:
  Geriatric Use Clinical studies of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP did not include a sufficient number of patients age 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects. In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function.Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to monitor renal function.Frequent laboratory determinations and clinical evaluations are recommended to monitor changes in blood glucose, electrolyte concentrations, and renal function.
adverse_reactions:
  Adverse Reactions Possible adverse effects arising from the irrigation of body cavities, tissues, or indwelling catheters and tubes can be minimized when proper procedures are followed. Displaced catheters or drainage tubes can lead to irrigation or infiltration of unintended structures or cavities. Excessive volume or pressure during irrigation of closed cavities may cause undue distension or disruption of tissues. Accidental contamination from careless technique may transmit infection. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue administration of the irrigant, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary.
overdosage:
  Overdosage In the event of overhydration or solute overload, reevaluate the patient's condition, and institute appropriate corrective treatment. Intravasular volume overload may respond to hemodialysis. See WARNINGS, PRECAUTIONS, and ADVERSE REACTIONS.
how_supplied:
  How Supplied 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP is supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in PIC™ (Plastic Irrigation Container). The 1000 mL and 500 mL containers are packaged 16 per case, the 2000 mL containers are packaged 8 per case, and the 4000 mL containers are packaged 4 per case. 0.9% Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP NDC Cat. No. REF SIZE 0264-2201-00 R5200-01 1000 mL 0264-2201-10 R5201-01 500 mL 0264-2201-50 R5205-01 2000 mL 0264-2201-70 R5207 ,,,,4000 mL Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized. Avoid excessive heat. Protect from freezing. It is recommended that the product be stored at room temperature (25°C); however, brief exposure up to 40°C does not adversely affect the product. Do not warm above 150°F (66°C).
ask_doctor:
  Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns
  Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns
  Ask a doctor before use if stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis or kidney disease you are taking a diuretic you have asthma
when_using:
  When using this product do not use longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor
ask_doctor_or_pharmacist:
  Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug for diabetes, gout or arthritis
pregnancy_or_breast_feeding:
  If pregnant or breast-feeding, If pregnant or breat-feeding , ask a health professional before use. It is especially important not to use aspirin during the last three months of pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Triple Principal Display Panel Triple Antibiotic
  BZK Wipe Principal Display Panel Antiseptic Wipe
  Principal Display Panel 500 ml Container NaCL Irrigation USP
  Alcohol Wipe Principal Display Panel Alcohol Preps
  Ammonia Inhalent Principal Display Panel Ammonia Inhalent
  PVP Wipes Principal Display Panel PVP Wipe
  PAWS Principal Display Panel Paws
  Aspirin Principal Display Panel Aspirin
  4387 Kit Label 346200/M 4387 label
set_id:
  95e5ad5c-89a1-7b00-e053-2a95a90a6e79
id:
  0ec5ca60-fd0f-9fb3-e063-6294a90a936b
effective_time:
  20240112
version:
  6
openfda:
