effective_time:
  20150330
contraindications:
  Contraindications Contraindicated in individuals who are hypersensitive to fluoride
spl_product_data_elements:
  60 Second Taste Chocolate Vanilla Topical APF Fluoride Gel Saccharin Sodium Sodium fluoride Fluoride ion
warnings_and_cautions:
  Warnings and Precautions Keep out of reach of children. For topical intraoral use only. For professionally applied in office fluoride treatment only. Not for systemic treatement. Do no swallow. Do not use on patients with an allergy to fluoride. 60 Second Taste contains artifical color and flavor; confirm that no known patient allergies exist. Marshmallow and Chocolate Vanilla are dye free and contain no artificial colors. Special care should be used when administering to children under 6 years of age so that gel is not swallowed. Contact with abraided or sensitive oral tissue may produce discomfort. If more than is ordinarily used for treatment is swallowed, administer calcium such as milk and contact your local Poison Control Center immediately.
other_safety_information:
  Other Safey Information For product MSDS information please see company website at pascaldental.com or contact Pascal directly. Pascal's 60 Second Taste is free gluten, soy, milk, egg, peanut and tree nut products. Rx only in USA. For Professional Use only.
openfda:
version:
  1
dosage_and_administration:
  Dosage and Directions for Use: Usual dosage is approximately 2.75-9.0 grams of 60 Second Taste per dual arch treatment depending on tray size. Shake well before use. After prophylaxis remove excess fluid from teeth. Fill applicator tray 1/3 full with gel. Insert filled tray into patient's mouth and instruct to bite down gently for one minute or up to four minutes. After treatment time is completed, remove tray and have patient expectorate residual gel. For maximum benefits for the prevention of caries, instruct patient not to rinse, eat or drink for 30 minutes. Repeat treatment at least once or twice a year. For patients with rampant or active caries, repeat treatment once or twice every six months. If contents have become frozen, warm to room temperature and shake well before using.
dosage_forms_and_strengths:
  Contains: Active Ingredient: 1.23% w/w fluoride ion from 2.72% sodium fluoride
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  60 Second Taste Gel Anticavity Topical APF* Preventive Treatment Gel *Acidulated Phosphate Fluoride Chocoloate Vanilla 60 Second Taste Bottle Chocolate Vanilla Flavor Label
set_id:
  1287d2cd-9108-10cf-e054-00144ff88e88
id:
  1287d2cd-9109-10cf-e054-00144ff88e88
