spl_product_data_elements:
  A Method Clear Protection Powder 3.5g Zinc Oxide SILICON DIOXIDE MICA ZINC OXIDE ZINC OXIDE
spl_unclassified_section:
  Side Panel Box MINERAL POWDER SUNSCREEN mattifies shine while delivering daily sun protection. Brush it on throughout the day to reduce shine and ease SPF reapplication. HOW TO USE 1. Remove the cap, slide down clear plastic sleeve and remove the rubber band from around the bristles 2. Pull the clear plastic sleeve back up and replace cap, then turn over and tap the cap 3-7 times to prime applicator brush 3. Activate powder flow by removing cap and fanning the bristles against your wrist 4. Generously apply powder in small circles to achieve full coverage 5. To close: pull the clear plastic sleeve up and replace the cap Re-Activation: If your powder stops flowing, repeat step two
  Drug Facts Box DRUG FACTS: Active Ingredients Active Ingredients Zinc Oxide 25% Purpose Sunscreen Uses Uses: Helps prevent sunburn. Warnings Warnings: • For external use only. • Do not use on damaged or broken skin. • Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs. • When using this product, keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. • Keep out of reach of children. • If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. Directions Directions: • Apply liberally to face at least 15 minutes before sun exposure. • Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating. • Reapply at least every 2 hours. • Children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor. Sun Protection Measures Sun Protection Measures: Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: • Limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. • Wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses. Inactive Ingredients Inactive Ingredients: Sericite, Mica, and Silica. Other Information Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun. Questions or Comments? Questions or Comments? 877.746.4407, Mon-Fri 8 a.m.-6 p.m. EST
  Tube Labeling Uses: Helps prevent sunburn. Warnings: For external use only. • Do not use on damaged or broken skin. • Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs. • When using this product, keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. • Keep out of reach of children. • If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. Directions: Apply liberally to face at least 15 minutes before sun exposure. • Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating. • Reapply at least every 2 hours. • Children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor. Active Ingredients: Zinc Oxide 25% Inactive Ingredients: Sericite, Mica, and Silica Questions or Comments? 877.746.4407, Mon-Fri 8A.M.-6P.M. EST See outer box for all Drug Facts
active_ingredient:
  Active Ingredients Active Ingredients Zinc Oxide 25% Purpose Sunscreen
purpose:
  Uses Uses: Helps prevent sunburn.
warnings_and_cautions:
  Warnings Warnings: • For external use only. • Do not use on damaged or broken skin. • Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs. • When using this product, keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. • Keep out of reach of children. • If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately.
when_using:
  Directions Directions: • Apply liberally to face at least 15 minutes before sun exposure. • Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating. • Reapply at least every 2 hours. • Children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor.
  Sun Protection Measures Sun Protection Measures: Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: • Limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. • Wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses.
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive Ingredients Inactive Ingredients: Sericite, Mica, and Silica.
other_safety_information:
  Other Information Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun.
questions:
  Questions or Comments? Questions or Comments? 877.746.4407, Mon-Fri 8 a.m.-6 p.m. EST
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Front View Box A Method ® By Tina Alster, MD Clear Protection Powder Broad Spectrum SPF 50 AM • ALL SKIN TYPES 0.12 OZ | 3.5G Box
  Front View Tube A Method® By Tina Alster, MD Clear Protection Powder Broad Spectrum SPF 50 AM • ALL SKIN TYPES 0.12 OZ | 3.5G Tube
set_id:
  f826d711-3cc6-4b17-e053-6294a90af714
id:
  fb9c48ba-7815-51d0-e053-6294a90a7c90
effective_time:
  20230513
version:
  2
openfda:
