effective_time:
  20180911
precautions:
  PRECAUTIONS: General: Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, manifestations of Cushing’s syndrome, hyperglycemia and glucosuria in some patients. Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids, use over large surface areas, prolonged use and the addition of occlusive dressings. Therefore, patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area and under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests. If HPA axis suppression is noted, an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug, to reduce the frequency of application or to substitute a less potent steroid. Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug. Infrequently, signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur, requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids. Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity. (See Precautions-Pediatric Use.) If irritation develops, topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted. In the presence of dermatological infections, the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted. If a favorable response does not occur promptly, the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled.
description:
  DESCRIPTION: Hydrocortisone Acetate 2.5%-Pramoxine HCl 1% Cream is a topical preparation containing Hydrocortisone Acetate 2.5% w/w and Pramoxine HCl 1% w/w in a hydrophilic base containing Purified Water, Petrolatum, PEG 40 Stearate, Mineral Oil, Ceresin Wax, Cetostearyl Alcohol, Stearic Acid, TEA-Lauryl Sulfate, Isopropyl Palmitate, Carbomer 940, Methyl Paraben, Propyl Paraben, Citric Acid, Sodium Citrate and Triethanolamine. Topical corticosteroids are anti-inflammatory and anti-pruritic agents. The structural formula, the chemical name, molecular formula and molecular weight for active ingredients are presented below. Hcacetate Formula Pramoxine Formula
storage_and_handling:
  Storage Conditions: Store at 20° - 25°C (68° - 77°F); excursions permitted to 15° - 30°C (59° - 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Rx Only Manufactured for: Acella Pharmaceuticals, LLC 9005 Westside Parkway L700 Alpharetta, GA 30009 Rev.0310
pharmacokinetics:
  Pharmacokinetics: The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle, the integrity of the epidermal barrier and the use of occlusive dressings. Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin. Inflammation and/or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption. Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids. Thus, occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION.) Once absorbed through the skin, topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids. Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees. Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys. Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile.
indications_and_usage:
  INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Topical corticosteroids are indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses.
set_id:
  14dc356d-6c29-4d91-b78e-f5222cd163c0
id:
  71382caa-68fb-4ac8-ac32-ddd3028c3543
pediatric_use:
  Pediatric Use: Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroids induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing’s syndrome than mature patients because of larger skin surface area to body weight ratio. Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, Cushing’s syndrome and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids. Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation, delayed weight gain, low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation. Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles, headaches and bilateral papilledema. Administration of topical corticosteroids to children should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen. Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children.
contraindications:
  CONTRAINDICATIONS: Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation.
pregnancy:
  Pregnancy: Teratogenic Effects: Pregnancy Category C: Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels. The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids. Therefore, topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients, in large amounts or for prolonged periods of time.
nursing_mothers:
  Nursing Mothers: It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable amounts in breast milk. Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities NOT likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant. Nevertheless, caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman.
spl_product_data_elements:
  Acella Hydrocortisone Acetate - Pramoxine Singles HYDROCORTISONE ACETATE, PRAMOXINE WATER PETROLATUM MINERAL OIL CETOSTEARYL ALCOHOL STEARIC ACID TRIETHANOLAMINE LAURYL SULFATE ISOPROPYL PALMITATE CARBOMER HOMOPOLYMER TYPE C METHYLPARABEN CITRIC ACID MONOHYDRATE SODIUM CITRATE TROLAMINE HYDROCORTISONE ACETATE HYDROCORTISONE PRAMOXINE PRAMOXINE
openfda:
version:
  7
dosage_and_administration:
  DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Topical corticosteroids are generally applied to the affected area as a thin film three to four times daily depending on the severity of the condition. Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions. If an infection develops, the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted.
adverse_reactions:
  ADVERSE REACTIONS: The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, miliaria.
laboratory_tests:
  Laboratory Tests: Urinary free cortisol test and ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating the HPA axis suppression.
how_supplied:
  HOW SUPPLIED: Hydrocortisone Acetate 2.5%-Pramoxine HCl 1% Cream Singles are supplied in 30 x 4 gram tubes (NDC 42192-108-04).
information_for_patients:
  Information for the patient: Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions: 1. This medication is to be used as directed by the physician. It is for external use only. Avoid contact with eyes. 2. Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than for which it was prescribed. 3. The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician. 4. Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions especially under occlusive dressings. 5. Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight-fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area, as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  NDC 42192-108-04 Rx Only Net Wt. 4 g Hydrocortisone Acetate 2.5% - Pramoxine HCl 1% Cream CONTAINS: Hydrocortisone Acetate 2.5% and Pramoxine HCl 1% in a hydrophilic base containing Purified Water, Petrolatum, PEG 40 Stearate, Mineral Oil, Ceresin Wax, Cetostearyl Alcohol, Stearic Acid, TEA-Lauryl Sulfate, Isopropyl Palmitate, Carbomer Homopolymer Type C, Methyl Paraben, Propyl Paraben, Citric Acid, Sodium Citrate and Triethanolamine. USUAL DOSAGE: Apply to affected area 3 - 4 times daily. See enclosed package insert for full prescribing information. FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY. NOT FOR OPTHALMIC USE. Store at controlled room temperature 15 degree - 30 degree C (59 degree - 86 degree F) Keep tightly closed. TO OPEN: Remove cap and use point to puncture foil seal. MANUFACTURED FOR: Acella Pharmaceuticals, LLC L697 Alpharetta, GA 30009 Rev. 0610
  Label - Helps relieve itching, burning and inflammation. - 2.5% Hydrocortisone Acetate: Treats inflammation and itching while maintaining an excellent safety profile. - 1% Pramoxine HCl: Provides fast, soothing relief from pain and itching. NDC 42192-108-04 Hydrocortisone Acetate 2.5% - Pramoxine HCl 1% Cream Singles KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY. NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE. CONTAINS: Hydrocortisone Acetate 2.5% and Pramoxine HCl 1% in a hydrophilic base containing Purified Water, Petrolatum, PEG 40 Stearate, Mineral Oil, Ceresin Wax, Cetostearyl Alcohol, Stearic Acid, TEA-Lauryl Sulfate, Isopropyl Palmitate, Carbomer 940, Methyl Paraben, Propyl Paraben, Citric Acid, Sodium Citrate and Triethanolamine. USUAL DOSAGE: Apply to affected area 3 - 4 times daily or as directed by a physician. See enclosed package Insert for full prescribing information. Store at 20 degree - 25 degree C (68 degree - 77 degree F) ; excursions permitted to 15 degree - 30 degree C (59 degree - 86 degree F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Acella Pharmaceuticals, LLC NDC 42192-108-04 Hydrocortisone Acetate 2.5% - Pramoxine HCl 1% Cream Singles DIRECTIONS FOR USE WITH APPLICATOR: 1. Remove the cap and use point to puncture foil seal. Do not peel foil seal away. 2. Attach applicator to the tube. 3. Squeeze the tube to fill applicator and lubricate the tip with cream. 4. Gently insert only the tip of the applicator into the anus and squeeze again to force contents of tube into the anal canal. 5. Discard empty tube and applicator. MANUFACTURED FOR: Acella Pharmaceuticals, LLC Alpharetta, GA 30009 L701 1-800-541-4902 Rev. 0310 NDC 42192-108-04 Hydrocortisone Acetate 2.5% - Pramoxine HCl 1% Cream Singles 4 gram Single Use Tubes Rx Only Contents: 30 Single Use 4 gram Tubes and Applicators Acella Pharmaceuticals, LLC
  Acella Tube Label
  Acella Carton
clinical_pharmacology:
  CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Topical corticosteroids share anti-inflammatory, anti-pruritic and vasoconstrictive actions. The mechanism of anti-inflammatory activity of topical corticosteroids is unclear. Various laboratory methods, including vasoconstrictor assays, are used to compare and predict potencies and/or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids. There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man. Pramoxine hydrochloride is a topical anesthetic agent which provides temporary relief from itching and pain. It acts by stabilizing the neuronal membrane of nerve endings with which it comes into contact.
carcinogenesis_and_mutagenesis_and_impairment_of_fertility:
  Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility: Long-term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids. Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone and hydrocortisone have revealed negative results.
overdosage:
  OVERDOSAGE: Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects (See PRECAUTIONS.)
