pediatric_use:
  Pediatric usage Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 12 years have not been established.
effective_time:
  20160523
contraindications:
  Contraindications Aclaro® is contraindicated in any patient that has a prior history of hypersensitivity or allergic reaction to hydroquinone or any of the other ingredients. The safety of topical hydroquinone use during pregnancy or on children (12 years and under) has not been established.
references:
  1. Denton C., Lerner A.B., and Fitzpatrick T.B. "Inhibition of Melanin Formation by Chemical Agents." Journal of Investigative Dermatology. 1952;18:119 - 135. 2. Jimbow K., Obata H., Pathak M., and Fitzpatrick T.B. "Mechanism of Depigmentation by Hydroquinone." Journal of Investigative Dermatology. 1974;62:436 - 449.
precautions:
  Precautions See Warnings:
warnings:
  Warnings A. Caution: Hydroquinone is a depigmenting agent which may produce unwanted cosmetic effects if not used as directed. The physician should be familiar with the contents of this insert before prescribing or dispensing this medication. B.Test for skin sensitivity before using Aclaro® (hydroquinone USP 4%) emulsion by applying a small amount to an unbroken patch of skin and check within 24 hours. Minor redness is not a contraindication, but where there is itching, vesicle formation, or excessive inflammatory response, further treatment is not advised. Close patient supervision is recommended. Contact with the eyes should be avoided. If no lightening effect is noted after two months of treatment, use of Aclaro® emulsion should be discontinued. C. Sunscreen use is an essential aspect of hydroquinone therapy because even minimal sunlight exposure sustains melanocyte activity. The sunscreens in Aclaro® emulsion provide the necessary sun protection during therapy. During and after the use of Aclaro® emulsion, sun exposure should be limited or sun-protective clothing should be used to cover the treated areas to prevent repigmentation. D. Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, contact a physician or poison control center immediately. E. Contains sodium metabisulfite, a sulfite that may cause serious allergic reactions (e.g., hives, itching, wheezing, anaphylaxis, severe asthma attack) in certain susceptible persons. F. On rare occasions, a gradual blue-black darkening of the skin may occur. If this occurs, the product should be discontinued and a physician contacted immediately.
pregnancy:
  Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with topical hydroquinone. It is also not known whether hydroquinone can cause fetal harm when used topically on a pregnant woman or affect reproductive capacity. It is not known to what degree, if any, topical hydroquinone is absorbed systemically. Topical hydroquinone should be used in pregnant women only when clearly indicated.
nursing_mothers:
  Nursing Mothers Nursing mothers: It is not known whether topical hydroquinone is absorbed or excreted in human milk. Caution is advised when hydroquinone is used by a nursing mother. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN.
spl_product_data_elements:
  Aclaro Hydroquinone Hydroquinone Hydroquinone Hydroquinone ASCORBIC ACID BENZYL ALCOHOL AVOBENZONE ALKYL (C12-15) BENZOATE CETEARYL ETHYLHEXANOATE CETYL ALCOHOL CETYL ESTERS WAX CETYL PALMITATE CETYL PHOSPHATE DIMETHICONE EDETATE DISODIUM OCTINOXATE GLYCERIN GLYCOLIC ACID SODIUM GLYCOLATE HYDROXYETHYL CELLULOSE (140 CPS AT 5%) PHENOXYETHANOL Water SODIUM METABISULFITE STEARIC ACID
description:
  Description Rx only For topical use only Not for ophthalmic use Hydroquinone is 1,4-benzenediol. Hydroquinone is structurally related to monobenzone. Hydroquinone occurs as fine, white needles. The drug is freely soluble in water and in alcohol with a pKa of 9.96. Chemically, h ydroquinone is designated as p-dihydroxybenzene; the empirical formula is C6 H6 O2; molecular weight 110.1.The structural formula is: Active Ingredients: hydroquinone USP 4% Other Ingredients: ascorbic acid, benzyl alcohol, butyl methoxydibenzoylmethane, C12-15 alkyl benzoate, cetearyl octanoate, cetyl alcohol, cetyl esters, cetyl palmitate, DEA cetyl phosphate, dimethicone, disodium EDTA, ethylhexyl methoxycinnamate, glycerin, glycolic acid, ammonium glycolate, hydroxyethylcellulose, phenoxyethanol, purified water, sodium metabisulfite, and stearic acid. Image of chemical structure
openfda:
version:
  3
dosage_and_administration:
  Dosage and Administration Apply Umecta topical suspension to affected skin twice per day or as directed by a physician. Rub in until completely absorbed.
  Dosage and Administration Aclaro® emulsion should be applied to the affected areas twice daily, or as directed by a physician. There is no recommended dosage for pediatric patients under 12 years of age except under the advice and supervision of a physician.
adverse_reactions:
  Adverse Reactions No systemic reactions have been reported. Occasional cutaneous hypersensitivity (localized contact dermatitis) may occur, in which case the medication should be discontinued and the physician notified immediately.
how_supplied:
  How Supplied Aclaro®(hydroquinone USP 4%) emulsion is available as follows: 1.7 ounce airless pump bottle NDC 68712-003-01 Store at controlled room temperature:15˚ - 25˚ C (59˚ – 77˚ F) Manufactured for: Innocutis Holdings, LLC. Charleston, SC 29401 www.innocutis.com www.Aclaro4.com
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Image of Label
indications_and_usage:
  Indications and Usage Aclaro® is indicated for the gradual treatment of ultraviolet induced dyschromia and discoloration resulting rom the use of oral contraceptives, pregnancy, hormone replacment therapy, or skin trauma.
clinical_pharmacology:
  Clinical Pharmacology Topical application of hydroquinone produces a reversible depigmentation of the skin by inhibition of the enzymatic oxidation of tyrosine to 3- (3,4-dihydroxyphenyl) alanine (dopa) and suppression of other melanocyte metabolic processes. 2
set_id:
  62c05873-cdf8-4a4a-9744-e4dbe3e822ff
id:
  5409ad5a-a055-4be6-881c-ea374f202dd4
overdosage:
  Overdosage Section There have been no systemic reactions reported from the use of topicalshydroquinone.However, treatment should be limited to relatively small areas of thesbody at one time, since some patients experience a transient skin reddening and a mildsburning sensation which does not preclude treatment.
