effective_time:
  20151125
inactive_ingredient:
  INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive Ingredients: Water, Glycerin, Methylpropanediol, Butylene Glycol, Dipropylene Glycol, Chamomilla Recutita (Matricaria) Flower Extract, Acer saccharum (Sugar Maple) extract, Betaine, Portulaca Oleracea Extract, Hydroxyethyl Acrylate/Sodium Acryloyldimethyl Taurate Copolymer, Ethylhexylglycerin, Caprylyl Glycol, Xanthan Gum, Adenosine, Sorbitan Isostearate, Polysorbate 60, Sodium Hyaluronate, Fragrance, Saururus Chinensis Extract, Ledum Palustre Extract, Houttuynia Cordata Extract, Ecklonia Cava Extract, Artemisia Capillaris Flower Extract, Acetyl Hexapeptide-8, Gentiana Lutea Root Extract, Artemisia Absinthium Extract, Arnica Montana Flower Extract, Achillea Millefolium Extract, Pseudoalteromonas Ferment Extract, Palmitoyl Tripeptide-5, Hydrolyzed Wheat Protein, Hydrolyzed Soy Protein, 1,2-Hexanediol, Tripeptide-10 Citrulline, Tripeptide-1
purpose:
  PURPOSE Purpose: Skin Protectant
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN
warnings:
  WARNINGS Warning: For external use only. Avoid contact with eyes. Not for human consumption. Discontinue use if irritation occurs. If irritation persists, consult a physician. Use immediately after opening. Store in cool and dry place. Keep out of reach of children.
spl_product_data_elements:
  ANTI AGING TREATMENT MASK Witch Hazel Witch Hazel WITCH HAZEL Water Glycerin
openfda:
version:
  2
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions Directions: 1) Clean and dry face. 2) Remove mask from package and gently unfold. 3) Place mask directly on skin, contouring it to fit the curves around the eyes, nose and mouth. 4) Leave on for 10-20 minutes. 5) Remove mask and gently pat the face with fingertips until the remaining serum is fully absorbed. *Suggested use is 2-3 times a week.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PACKAGE LABEL.PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Image of cello pack
indications_and_usage:
  Directions Directions: 1) Clean and dry face. 2) Remove mask from package and gently unfold. 3) Place mask directly on skin, contouring it to fit the curves around the eyes, nose and mouth. 4) Leave on for 10-20 minutes. 5) Remove mask and gently pat the face with fingertips until the remaining serum is fully absorbed. *Suggested use is 2-3 times a week.
set_id:
  15af0095-be9a-46fd-87e7-a7efdcba1cf5
id:
  b1e97d6d-62e1-42a4-b705-b2fa89501eb3
active_ingredient:
  ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredient: Hamamelis Virginiana (Witch Hazel) Water 0.1%
