spl_product_data_elements:
  anti itch hydrocortisone HYDROCORTISONE HYDROCORTISONE ALOE VERA LEAF PETROLATUM clear
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1%
purpose:
  Purpose Anti-itch
indications_and_usage:
  Uses • temporarily relieves itching associated with minor skin irritations, inflammation, and rashes due to: • eczema • psoriasis • poison ivy, oak, sumac • insect bites • detergents • jewelry • cosmetics • soaps • seborrheic dermatitis • temporarily relieves external anal and genital itching • other uses of this product should only be under the advice and supervision of a doctor
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge. Ask a doctor. • for the treatment of diaper rash. Ask a doctor. When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days, and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor • rectal bleeding occurs Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
do_not_use:
  Do not use • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge. Ask a doctor. • for the treatment of diaper rash. Ask a doctor.
when_using:
  When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days, and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor • rectal bleeding occurs
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions • for itching of skin irritation, inflammation, and rashes: • adults and children 2 years of age and older: apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age: do not use, ask a doctor • for external anal and genital itching, adults: • when practical, clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor
storage_and_handling:
  Other information • store at 20°-25°C (68°-77°F)
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients aloe barbadensis leaf juice, white petrolatum
questions:
  Questions or comments? 1-800-719-9260
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Principal Display Panel Compare to the active ingredient of Cortizone • 10® MAXIMUM STRENGTH relieves itch fast temporarily relieves skin irritation; inflammation & redness; rashes; insect bites; eczema & psoriasis anti-itch ointment 1% hydrocortisone NET WT 1 OZ (28 g) water resistant formula helps seal in healing 471-83-anti-itch ointment-1.jpg 471-83-anti-itch ointment-2.jpg
set_id:
  0f7f16cb-07d1-4c6d-ac2e-f3a0ccc7f324
id:
  03664474-d9b0-43ee-9127-bff9b5be06ec
effective_time:
  20241030
version:
  3
openfda:
