effective_time:
  20170828
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients Alcohol SD 40-B, isobutane (propellant), talc
purpose:
  Uses for relief of itching and burning cures and prevents most athlete's foot
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
warnings:
  Do not use - in the eyes - on nail or scalp infections
spl_product_data_elements:
  Athletes Foot Dr Foot Tolnaftate TOLNAFTATE TOLNAFTATE ISOBUTANE TALC
openfda:
version:
  6
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older: cleanse skin with soap and water and dry thoroughly. Shake can well; hold 6 inches away and spray on feet and between toes morning and night for full treatment period (4 weeks) even if symptoms disappear. Should the spray dispenser become clogged, clean the spraying hole with a needle. Wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes and cotton socks. Children under 2 years of age: consult a doctor. Change shoes and socks at least once a day.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Dr. Foot tm Athletes' Foot Spray Net Wt. 4 oz. (113 g) image of Primary Label
indications_and_usage:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms persist for more than 10 days or irritation occurs
set_id:
  84d58d8b-d0d6-48b0-82df-e77371bf9f4a
id:
  d7ceb8dd-4592-4673-bc50-ab27e7ee7a18
active_ingredient:
  Active Ingredients Purpose w/w Tolnaftate 1% antifungal image of Secondary label Uses for relief of itching and burning cures and prevents most athlete's foot Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms persist for more than 10 days or irritation occurs Do not use - in the eyes - on nail or scalp infections Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older: cleanse skin with soap and water and dry thoroughly. Shake can well; hold 6 inches away and spray on feet and between toes morning and night for full treatment period (4 weeks) even if symptoms disappear. Should the spray dispenser become clogged, clean the spraying hole with a needle. Wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes and cotton socks. Children under 2 years of age: consult a doctor. Change shoes and socks at least once a day. Inactive ingredients Alcohol SD 40-B, isobutane (propellant), talc
