effective_time:
  20170111
inactive_ingredient:
  INACTIVE INGREDIENT Croscarmellose sodium dibasic calcium phosphate lactose monohydrate magnesium stearate mcrocrystalline cellulose
contraindications:
  CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to benztropine mesylate tablets. Because of its atropine-like side effects, this drug is contraindicated in pediatric patients under three years of age, and should be used with caution in older pediatric patients.
precautions:
  PRECAUTIONS General Since benztropine mesylate has cumulative action, continued supervision is advisable. Patients with a tendency to tachycardia and patients with prostatic hypertrophy should be observed closely during treatment. Dysuria may occur, but rarely becomes a problem. Urinary retention has been reported with benztropine mesylate. The drug may cause complaints of weakness and inability to move particular muscle groups, especially in large doses. For example, if the neck has been rigid and suddenly relaxes, it may feel weak, causing some concern. In this event, dosage adjustment is required. Mental confusion and excitement may occur with large doses, or in susceptible patients. Visual hallucinations have been reported occasionally. Furthermore, in the treatment of extrapyramidal disorders due to neuroleptic drugs (e.g., phenothiazines), in patients with mental disorders, occasionally there may be intensification of mental symptoms. In such cases, antiparkinsonian drugs can precipitate a toxic psychosis. Patients with mental disorders should be kept under careful observation, especially at the beginning of treatment or if dosage is increased. Tardive dyskinesia may appear in some patients on long-term therapy with phenothiazines and related agents, or may occur after therapy with these drugs has been discontinued. Antiparkinsonism agents do not alleviate the symptoms of tardive dyskinesia, and in some instances may aggravate them. Benztropine mesylate is not recommended for use in patients with tardive dyskinesia. The physician should be aware of the possible occurrence of glaucoma. Although the drug does not appear to have any adverse effect on simple glaucoma, it probably should not be used in angle-closure glaucoma. Drug Interactions WARNINGS ). Pediatric Use Because of the atropine-like side effects, benztropine mesylate should be used with caution in pediatric patients over three years of age (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ).
warnings:
  WARNINGS Safe use in pregnancy has not been established. Benztropine mesylate may impair mental and/or physical abilities required for performance of hazardous tasks, such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle. When benztropine mesylate is given concomitantly with phenothiazines, haloperidol, or other drugs with anticholinergic or antidopaminergic activity, patients should be advised to report gastrointestinal complaints, fever or heat intolerance promptly. Paralytic ileus, hyperthermia and heat stroke, all of which have sometimes been fatal, have occurred in patients taking anticholinergic-type antiparkinsonism drugs, including benztropine mesylate, in combination with phenothiazines and/or tricyclic antidepressants. Since benztropine mesylate contains structural features of atropine, it may produce anhidrosis. For this reason, it should be administered with caution during hot weather, especially when given concomitantly with other atropine-like drugs to the chronically ill, the alcoholic, those who have central nervous system disease, and those who do manual labor in a hot environment. Anhidrosis may occur more readily when some disturbance of sweating already exists. If there is evidence of anhidrosis, the possibility of hyperthermia should be considered. Dosage should be decreased at the discretion of the physician so that the ability to maintain body heat equilibrium by perspiration is not impaired. Severe anhidrosis and fatal hyperthermia have occurred.
spl_product_data_elements:
  Benztropine Mesylate Benztropine Mesylate CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM DIBASIC CALCIUM PHOSPHATE DIHYDRATE LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MAGNESIUM STEARATE CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE BENZTROPINE MESYLATE BENZTROPINE TABLET 2327;V
description:
  DESCRIPTION Benztropine mesylate is a synthetic compound containing structural features found in atropine and diphenhydramine. It is a crystalline white powder, very soluble in water, designated as 35methanesulfonate, with the following structural formula: Each tablet, for oral administration, contains 0.5 mg, 1 mg or 2 mg of benztropine mesylate. Each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients: croscarmellose sodium, dibasic calcium phosphate, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate and microcrystalline cellulose. MM1
openfda:
version:
  3
dosage_and_administration:
  DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Benztropine mesylate tablets should be used when patients are able to take oral medication. Because of cumulative action, therapy should be initiated with a low dose which is increased gradually at five- or six-day intervals to the smallest amount necessary for optimal relief. Increases should be made in increments of 0.5 mg, to a maximum of 6 mg, or until optimal results are obtained without excessive adverse reactions. Postencephalitic and Idiopathic Parkinsonism The usual daily dose is 1 to 2 mg with a range of 0.5 to 6 mg orally. As with any agent used in parkinsonism, dosage must be individualized according to age and weight, and the type of parkinsonism being treated. Generally, older patients, and thin patients cannot tolerate large doses. Most patients with postencephalitic parkinsonism need fairly large doses and tolerate them well. Patients with a poor mental outlook are usually poor candidates for therapy. In postencephalitic parkinsonism, therapy may be initiated in most patients with 2 mg a day in one or more doses. In highly sensitive patients, therapy may be initiated with 0.5 mg at bedtime, and increased as necessary. The long duration of action of this drug makes it particularly suitable for bedtime medication when its effects may last throughout the night, enabling patients to turn in bed during the night more easily, and to rise in the morning. When benztropine mesylate is started, do not terminate therapy with other antiparkinsonian agents abruptly. If the other agents are to be reduced or discontinued, it must be done gradually. Many patients obtain greatest relief with combination therapy. Benztropine mesylate may be used concomitantly with carbidopa-levodopa, or with levodopa, in which case periodic dosage adjustment may be required in order to maintain optimum response. Drug-Induced Extrapyramidal Disorders When extrapyramidal disorders develop soon after initiation of treatment with neuroleptic drugs (e.g., phenothiazines), they are likely to be transient. One to 2 mg of benztropine mesylate tablets two or three times a day usually provides relief within one or two days. After one or two weeks the drug should be withdrawn to determine the continued need for it. If such disorders recur, benztropine mesylate can be reinstituted. Certain drug-induced extrapyramidal disorders that develop slowly may not respond to benztropine mesylate.
adverse_reactions:
  ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions below, most of which are anticholinergic in nature, have been reported and within each category are listed in order of decreasing severity. Cardiovascular Tachycardia. Digestive Paralytic ileus, constipation, vomiting, nausea, dry mouth. If dry mouth is so severe that there is difficulty in swallowing or speaking, or loss of appetite and weight, reduce dosage or discontinue the drug temporarily. Slight reduction in dosage may control nausea and still give sufficient relief of symptoms. Vomiting may be controlled by temporary discontinuation, followed by resumption at a lower dosage. Special Senses Blurred vision, dilated pupils. Urogenital Urinary retention, dysuria. Metabolic/Immune or Skin Occasionally, an allergic reaction, e.g., skin rash, develops. If this cannot be controlled by dosage reduction, the medication should be discontinued. Other Heat stroke, hyperthermia, fever.
how_supplied:
  HOW SUPPLIED
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PACKAGE LABEL.PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL SECTION DRUG: Benztropine Mesylate GENERIC: Benztropine Mesylate DOSAGE: TABLET ADMINSTRATION: ORAL NDC: 49349-673-31 STRENGTH:2 mg COLOR: white SHAPE: ROUND SCORE: Two even pieces SIZE: 7 mm IMPRINT: 500 QTY: 500 MM2
indications_and_usage:
  INDICATIONS & USAGE For use as an adjunct in the therapy of all forms of parkinsonism. Useful also in the control of extrapyramidal disorders (except tardive dyskinesiasee PRECAUTIONS ) due to neuroleptic drugs (e.g., phenothiazines).
clinical_pharmacology:
  CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Benztropine mesylate possesses both anticholinergic and antihistaminic effects, although only the former have been established as therapeutically significant in the management of parkinsonism. In laboratory animals, its antihistaminic activity and duration of action approach those of pyrilamine maleate.
set_id:
  1cad1a5b-f838-4825-bdbb-ba4f79c186cc
id:
  45d37feb-66ed-2f34-e054-00144ff88e88
overdosage:
  OVERDOSAGE Manifestations Treatment Physostigmine salicylate, 1 to 2 mg, SC or IV, reportedly will reverse symptoms of anticholinergic intoxication.
