effective_time:
  20171117
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients carnauba wax, colloidal silicon dioxide, croscarmellose sodium, lactose (monohydrate), magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, polyethylene glycol, polyvinyl alcohol, talc, and titanium dioxide
purpose:
  Purpose Acid reducer
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
warnings:
  Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to famotidine or other acid reducers Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools. These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. • if you have kidney disease, except under the advice and supervision of a doctor • with other acid reducers Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition. • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating, or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
questions:
  Questions or comments? 1-800-934-1204
spl_product_data_elements:
  berkley and jensen acid controller Famotidine FAMOTIDINE FAMOTIDINE CARNAUBA WAX SILICON DIOXIDE CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MAGNESIUM STEARATE CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE POLYETHYLENE GLYCOLS POLYVINYL ALCOHOL TALC TITANIUM DIOXIDE L194
ask_doctor:
  Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition. • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating, or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain
openfda:
version:
  3
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions • adults and children 12 years and over: • to relieve symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water. Do not chew. • to prevent symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water at any time from 10 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • do not use more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years: ask a doctor
pregnancy_or_breast_feeding:
  If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use.
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days
storage_and_handling:
  Other information • read the directions and warnings before use • keep all packaging. It contains important information. {STRETCH CARD CONFIGURATION ONLY} • store at 20°-25°C (68°-77°F) • protect from moisture and light
do_not_use:
  Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools. These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. • if you have kidney disease, except under the advice and supervision of a doctor • with other acid reducers
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Principal Display Panel COMPARE TO THE ACTIVE INGREDIENT IN MAXIMUM STRENGTH PEPCID® AC Maximum Strength Acid Controller Famotidine Tablets, 20 mg Acid Reducer Just One Tablet Prevents & Relieves Heartburn Due to Acid Indigestion Actual Size Acid Controller Stretch Card Image 1 Acid Controller Stretch Card Image 1 Acid Controller Stretch Card Image 2 Acid Controller Stretch Card Image 1 Acid Controller Stretch Card Image 2
indications_and_usage:
  Uses • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain food and beverages
set_id:
  8b0e8f39-7547-4c7e-87f2-87dcfed60f43
id:
  7d71e0b7-1630-4cd8-af30-7fd831226047
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient (in each tablet) Famotidine 20 mg
