effective_time:
  20171113
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide, croscarmellose sodium, diethyl phthalate, hypromellose, iron oxide red, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, titanium dioxide.
purpose:
  Purpose Acid reducer
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
warnings:
  Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to ranitidine or other acid reducers Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools. These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. • with other acid reducers Ask a doctor before use if you have • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
questions:
  Questions or comments? 1-800-719-9260
spl_product_data_elements:
  Careone Acid Reducer Ranitidine RANITIDINE HYDROCHLORIDE RANITIDINE SILICON DIOXIDE CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM DIETHYL PHTHALATE HYPROMELLOSES FERRIC OXIDE RED MAGNESIUM STEARATE CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE TITANIUM DIOXIDE W75
ask_doctor:
  Ask a doctor before use if you have • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness
openfda:
version:
  3
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions • adults and children 12 years and over: • to relieve symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water • to prevent symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 30 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • can be used up to twice daily (do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours) • children under 12 years: ask a doctor
pregnancy_or_breast_feeding:
  If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use.
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days
spl_unclassified_section:
  Consumer Information What you should know about Ranitidine Tablets, USP 75 mg Acid Reducer Ranitidine Tablets, USP 75 mg (Please read all of this information before taking Ranitidine Tablets, USP 75 mg. Save this leaflet for future reference.) What is Ranitidine Tablet 75 mg? • Ranitidine Tablet contains 75 mg of ranitidine (as ranitidine hydrochloride, 84 mg), a medicine that doctors have prescribed more than 200 million times worldwide. Excellent safety record • Ranitidine Tablets 75 mg has been used safely and effectively for years as an over-the-counter medication. • Ranitidine Tablets 75 mg are sugar free. What symptoms does Ranitidine Tablet 75 mg treat and prevent? Ranitidine Tablet 75 mg relieves and prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach. Certain foods or beverages, and even lying down to sleep, can cause heartburn associated with acid indigestion or sour stomach. It is normal for the stomach to produce acid, especially after consuming food or beverages. However, acid in the wrong place, such as the esophagus, or too much acid, can cause burning pain and discomfort. How should I take Ranitidine Tablet 75 mg? • To relieve symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water. • To prevent symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 30 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn. This medicine can be used up to twice daily (do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours). Ranitidine Tablets 75 mg should not be given to children under 12 years old unless directed by a doctor. How does Ranitidine Tablet 75 mg work? Ranitidine Tablet 75 mg reduces the production of stomach acid. This is what makes Ranitidine Tablets 75 mg different from antacids, which neutralize the acid already in your stomach. Antacids do not reduce the production of acid. Additional tips for managing heartburn • Do not lie flat or bend over soon after eating • Do not eat late at night, or just before bedtime • Certain foods or drinks are more likely to cause heartburn, such as rich, spicy, fatty, and fried foods, chocolate, caffeine, alcohol, even some fruits and vegetables • Eat slowly and do not eat big meals • If you are overweight, lose weight • If you smoke, quit smoking • Raise the head of your bed • Wear loose fitting clothing around your stomach When should I see a doctor? • Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to ranitidine or other acid reducers. • Do not use if you have • trouble or pain swallowing food • vomiting with blood • bloody or black stools These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. • with other acid reducers • Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition. • heartburn with lightheadedness, • sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days • If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. • Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Questions? Call 1-800-719-9260 BOTTLES: Bottle is sealed with printed foil under cap. Do not use if foil is open or torn. Bottle contains desiccant. BLISTERS: Do not use if the individual blister unit is open or torn. DISTRIBUTED BY PERRIGO, ALLEGAN, MI 49010 Made in India 27100 00 J2 Leaflet Image
storage_and_handling:
  Other information • do not use if printed foil under cap is broken or missing • store at 20° - 25°C (68° - 77°F) • avoid excessive heat or humidity • this product is sugar free
do_not_use:
  Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools. These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. • with other acid reducers
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Principal Display Panel Compare to the Active Ingredient in Zantac 75® Ranitidine Tablets, 75 mg ACID REDUCER RELIEVES & PREVENTS Heartburn Acid Indigestion Sour Stomach (# DOSES) {Replace "#" with number of tablets in package} Acid Reducer Carton Image 1 Acid Reducer Carton Image 1 Acid Reducer Carton Image 2 Acid Reducer Carton Image 3 Acid Reducer Carton Image 1 Acid Reducer Carton Image 2 Acid Reducer Carton Image 3
indications_and_usage:
  Uses • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain foods and beverages
set_id:
  324ac496-ce82-44ef-9c67-c54ad7030ae2
id:
  f2077acd-7fcd-41b6-bf16-44ad763b7ac5
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient (in each tablet) Ranitidine 75 mg (as ranitidine hydrochloride 84 mg)
