spl_product_data_elements:
  caring mill Ear Wax Drops Ear Wax Drops SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE PROPYLENE GLYCOL GLYCERIN SODIUM CITRATE ANHYDROUS CITRIC ACID CARBAMIDE PEROXIDE HYDROGEN PEROXIDE
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Carbamide Peroxide 6.5%
purpose:
  Purpose Ear Wax Removal Aid
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of the reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
indications_and_usage:
  Directions FOR USE IN THE EAR ONLY Adults and children over 12 years of age: Tilt head sideways and place 5 to 10 drops into ear. Tip of applicator should not enter ear canal. Keep drops in ear for several minutes by keeping head tilted or placing cotton in the ear. Use twice daily for up to 4 days if needed, or as directed by a doctor. Any earwax remaining after treatment may be removed by gently flushing the ear with warm water, using a soft rubber bulb ear syringe. When the ear canal is irrigated, the tip of the ear syringe should not obstruct the flow of water leaving the ear canal. Children under 12 years: consult a doctor.
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive Ingredients Citric Acid, Sodium Citrate Dihyfrate, Sodium Lauryl Sulfate, Glycerin, Propylene Glycol, Purified Water
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions FOR USE IN THE EAR ONLY Adults and children over 12 years of age: Tilt head sideways and place 5 to 10 drops into ear. Tip of applicator should not enter ear canal. Keep drops in ear for several minutes by keeping head tilted or placing cotton in the ear. Use twice daily for up to 4 days if needed, or as directed by a doctor. Any earwax remaining after treatment may be removed by gently flushing the ear with warm water, using a soft rubber bulb ear syringe. When the ear canal is irrigated, the tip of the ear syringe should not obstruct the flow of water leaving the ear canal. Children under 12 years: consult a doctor.
warnings:
  Warnings Ask a Doctor before use if you have eardrainage, discharge, ear pain,irritation rash in the ear,or are dizzy injury or perforation (hole) of the ear drum Recently had ear surgery
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Carbamide Peroxide 6.5
set_id:
  11efb1ad-3078-4675-e063-6294a90a9688
id:
  1b6c81fc-88cf-e5d1-e063-6294a90a9838
effective_time:
  20240621
version:
  6
openfda:
