effective_time:
  20130314
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients water, petrolatum, glycerin, mineral oil, ceteareth-6, dimethicone, VP/eicosene copolymer, phenoxyethanol, stearyl alcohol, ammonium acryloyldimethyltaurate/VP copolymer, cetyl alcohol, carbomer, edetate disodium, methylparaben, sodium citrate, ethylparaben, citric acid, propylparaben, may contain this ingredient sodium hydroxide
purpose:
  Purpose Anti-itch
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only Do not use in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge. Consult a doctor. for the treatment of diaper rash. Ask a doctor. When using this product avoid contact with eyes do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens, symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days, and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor rectal bleeding occurs Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
when_using:
  When using this product avoid contact with eyes do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator
questions:
  Questions? call 1-800-451-5084
spl_product_data_elements:
  Cortaid Maximum Strength Hydrocortisone Hydrocortisone Hydrocortisone Water Petrolatum Glycerin Mineral Oil Dimethicone Phenoxyethanol Stearyl Alcohol Cetyl Alcohol Edetate Disodium Methylparaben Sodium Citrate Ethylparaben Citric Acid Monohydrate Propylparaben Sodium Hydroxide
openfda:
version:
  2
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions for itching of skin irritation, inflammation, and rashes: adults and children 2 years of age and older: apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 2 years: Ask a doctor for external anal and genital itching, adults: when practical, clean the affected area with mild soap and water and rinse thoroughly gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 12 years of age: Ask a doctor
spl_unclassified_section:
  Drug Facts
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens, symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days, and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor rectal bleeding occurs
storage_and_handling:
  Other information store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) see end of carton or tube crimp for lot number and expiration date
do_not_use:
  Do not use in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge. Consult a doctor. for the treatment of diaper rash. Ask a doctor.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 g Tube Carton IMPROVED FORMULA #1 DOCTOR RECOMMENDED BRAND CORTAID ® HYDROCORTISONE ANTI-ITCH CREAM Fast Maximum Strength Itch Relief MAXIMUM STRENGTH CREAM Superior results with visibly healthier skin in 1 day* from: Redness & dryness Flaking & scaling Cracking NET WT 1 OZ (28 g) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 g Tube Carton
indications_and_usage:
  Uses temporarily relieves itching associated with minor skin irritations, inflammation, and rashes due to: eczema insect bites poison ivy, oak, or sumac soaps detergents cosmetics jewelry seborrheic dermatitis psoriasis temporarily relieves external anal and genital itching other uses of this product should only be under the advice and supervision of a doctor
set_id:
  53204a49-86fa-40a7-8d3a-6207d98bdeda
id:
  2551339c-c7c9-470f-890b-15ef5bbed3ab
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1%
