effective_time:
  20150120
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients cholesterol, methylparaben, microcrystalline wax, mineral oil, petrolatum
purpose:
  Purpose Anti-itch
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only. Do not use • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge. Consult a doctor. • for the treatment of diaper rash. Consult a doctor. When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens, symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days, and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor • rectal bleeding occurs Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
when_using:
  When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator
questions:
  Questions? call 1-800-451-5084
spl_product_data_elements:
  Cortaid Maximum Strength Hydrocortisone Acetate HYDROCORTISONE ACETATE HYDROCORTISONE CHOLESTEROL METHYLPARABEN MICROCRYSTALLINE WAX MINERAL OIL PETROLATUM
openfda:
version:
  2
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions • for itching of skin irritation, inflammation, and rashes: • adults and children 2 years of age and older: apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age: ask a doctor • for external anal and genital itching, adults: • when practical, clean the affected area with mild soap and water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor
spl_unclassified_section:
  Drug Facts
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens, symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days, and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor • rectal bleeding occurs
storage_and_handling:
  Other information • store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F)
do_not_use:
  Do not use • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge. Consult a doctor. • for the treatment of diaper rash. Consult a doctor.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 g Carton MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ointment Relieves ITCHING FAST! Dermatologist Recommended Helps Heal Rashes for Healthier Skin Maximum Strength Relieves itches due to: Eczema • Psoriasis • Seborrheic Dermatitis Insect Bites • Rashes • Poison Ivy/Oak/Sumac MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ointment CORTAID ® NET WT 1 OZ (28 g) Hydrocortisone Anti-Itch Ointment Principal Display Panel - 28 g Carton
indications_and_usage:
  Uses • temporarily relieves itching associated with minor skin irritations, inflammation, and rashes due to: • eczema • psoriasis • poison ivy, oak, sumac • insect bites • detergents • jewelry • cosmetics • soaps • seborrheic dermatitis • temporarily relieves external anal and genital itching • other uses of this product should only be under the advice and supervision of a doctor
set_id:
  41da4cd5-f7a8-4268-a93e-9e8e34ef8577
id:
  18f35680-3ad5-48d6-b21c-c2a02da867e2
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1% (as hydrocortisone acetate)
