spl_product_data_elements:
  Cromolyn Sodium Cromolyn Sodium CROMOLYN SODIUM CROMOLYN BENZALKONIUM CHLORIDE EDETATE DISODIUM WATER
spl_unclassified_section:
  
  Other information • store between 20°– 25°C (68°– 77°F) • protect from light • keep carton and package insert. They contain important instructions.
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient (per spray) Cromolyn sodium 5.2 mg
purpose:
  Purpose Nasal allergy symptom controller
indications_and_usage:
  Uses to prevent and relieve nasal symptoms of hay fever and other nasal allergies: • runny/itchy nose • sneezing • allergic stuffy nose
warnings:
  Warnings Do not use • if you are allergic to any of the ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have • fever • discolored nasal discharge • sinus pain • wheezing When using this product • it may take several days of use to notice an effect. Your best effect may not be seen for 1 to 2 weeks. • brief stinging or sneezing may occur right after use • do not use it to treat sinus infection, asthma, or cold symptoms • do not share this bottle with anyone else as this may spread germs Stop use and ask a doctor if • shortness of breath, wheezing, or chest tightness occurs • hives or swelling of the mouth or throat occurs • your symptoms worsen • you have new symptoms • your symptoms do not begin to improve within two weeks • you need to use for more than 12 weeks If pregnant or breast feeding, ask a health professional before use.
do_not_use:
  Do not use • if you are allergic to any of the ingredients
ask_doctor:
  Ask a doctor before use if you have • fever • discolored nasal discharge • sinus pain • wheezing
when_using:
  When using this product • it may take several days of use to notice an effect. Your best effect may not be seen for 1 to 2 weeks. • brief stinging or sneezing may occur right after use • do not use it to treat sinus infection, asthma, or cold symptoms • do not share this bottle with anyone else as this may spread germs
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if • shortness of breath, wheezing, or chest tightness occurs • hives or swelling of the mouth or throat occurs • your symptoms worsen • you have new symptoms • your symptoms do not begin to improve within two weeks • you need to use for more than 12 weeks
pregnancy_or_breast_feeding:
  If pregnant or breast feeding, ask a health professional before use.
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions • see package insert on how to use pump • parent or care provider must supervise the use of this product by young children • adults and children 2 years and older: o spray once into each nostril. Repeat 3-4 times a day (every 4-6 hours). If needed, may be used up to 6 times a day. o use every day while in contact with the cause of your allergies (pollen, molds, pets, and dust) o to prevent nasal allergy symptoms, use before contact with the cause of your allergies. For best results, start using up to one week before contact. o if desired, you can use this product with other medicines, including other allergy medicines. • Children under 2 years: Do not use unless directed by a doctor.
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride, edetate disodium, purified water
questions:
  Questions? Serious side effects associated with the use of this product may be reported to 1-800-323-0000. Before using any medication read all label directions. Keep carton and packaging insert. They contain important information. Cromolyn Sodium Nasal Solution is convenient and easy to administer using the metered spray pump. See package insert for spray pump directions. USE ONLY IF BODY SEAL IMPRINTED WITH "Protective Seal" AND YELLOW IS INTACT. All Leader ® Brand products are 100% satisfaction guaranteed or return to place of purchase for a full refund. DISTRIBUTED BY CARDINAL HEALTH DUBLIN, OHIO 43017 CIN 3653011 www.myleader.com 1800-200-6313 ©Cardinal Health Leader is a trademark of Cardinal Health
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Package/Label Principal Display Panel NDC 37205-223-61 LEADER® Compare to Nasalcrom® active ingredient* Cromolyn Sodium Nasal Solution USP NASAL SPRAY Nasal Allergy Symptom Controller Prevents and Relieves Nasal Allergy Symptoms: runny/itchy nose sneezing allergic stuffy nose Without Drowsiness Full Prescription Strength Safe For Ages 2 Years & Older SATISFACTION GURANTEED 200 Metered Sprays Each spray delivers 5.2 mg cromolyn sodium 0.88 FL OZ (26 mL) Carton
set_id:
  fc05700f-0a6b-4693-a3f4-3211606f660d
id:
  bd7d6d85-daea-40b6-b7ce-0d7ec1803835
effective_time:
  20250407
version:
  2
openfda:
