effective_time:
  20110425
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients glycerin, propylene glycol, purified water, sodium lauroyl sarcosinate, citric acid, flavor, sodium stannate
purpose:
  Uses for occasional use as an aid to soften, loosen and remove excessive ear wax.
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
warnings:
  Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have - ear drainage or discharge - ear pain - irritation or rash in the ear - dizziness - an injury or perforation (hole) of the ear drum - recently had ear surgery Stop use and ask a doctor if - you need to use for more than four days - excessive wax remains after use of this product When using this product - avoid contact with the eyes Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away
spl_product_data_elements:
  CVS Earwax Removal Aid CARBAMIDE PEROXIDE CARBAMIDE PEROXIDE CARBAMIDE PEROXIDE WATER GLYCERIN SODIUM LAUROYL SARCOSINATE SODIUM STANNATE PROPYLENE GLYCOL CITRIC ACID MONOHYDRATE FLAVOR
openfda:
version:
  1
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions FOR USE IN THE EAR ONLY Unscrew cap from bottle. Remove foil safety seal from bottle. Affix applicator cap to bottle. Adults and children over 12 years of age: - tilt head sideways and place 5 to 10 drops into ear - tip of applicator should not enter ear canal - keep drops in ear for several minutes by keeping head tilted or placing cotton in the ear - use twice daily for up to 4 days if needed, or as directed by a doctor - any wax remaining after treatment may be removed by gently flushing the ear with warm water, using a soft rubber ear syringe. Children under 12 years of age: consult a doctor. Other information - avoid exposing the bottle to excessive heat and direct sunlight - keep cap on bottle when not in use - Note: Drops foam on contact with ear wax due to release of oxygen. There may be an associated "cracking" sound - Note: Oversize packaging for ease in reading label information. Contains one bottle. - Store between 20 degrees to 25 degrees C (68 degrees to 77 degrees F)
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  c
indications_and_usage:
  Uses for occasional use as an aid to soften, loosen and remove excessive ear wax.
set_id:
  628a60a0-fbb9-4d71-b5c2-dfba9edd67a3
id:
  7334f45e-5f8f-4072-93e7-2f907db8d2d5
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Purpose Carbamide Peroxide 6.5%..........................Earwax Removal Aid
