spl_product_data_elements:
  DermaWash S2 sulfur soap SULFUR SULFUR TROLAMINE GLYCOL DISTEARATE SODIUM LAURETH SULFATE MYRISTIC ACID LAURYL BETAINE WATER SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE
dosage_and_administration:
  Dosage & Administration Directions for Use: 1. Rinse face and/or body with warm water. 2. Dispense 1 to 2 pumps of cleanser onto palm or washcloth. 3. Rub palms or washcloth together, spreading cleanser evenly and building a lather. 4. Cleanse skin gently but thoroughly. 5. Rinse face and/or body with warm water.
purpose:
  Purpose Designed for daily use, KAVI DermaWash S2 provides an ideal approach to cleansing oily or combination skin. DermaWash S2 utilizes allergy-tested ingredients that are non-comedogenic, pH-balancing, and completely free of animal products. With the same dosage of sulfur as Coral KAVI, DermaWash S2 is best suited for the treatment of acne-prone skin. DermaWash S2 can be also used in preparation of the skin prior to administration of a KAVI chemical peel.
indications_and_usage:
  Indications & Usage DermaWash S2 is best suited for the treatment of acne-prone skin. Directions: 1. Rinse face and/or body with warm water. 2. Dispense 1 to 2 pumps of cleanser onto palm or washcloth. 3. Rub palms or washcloth together, spreading cleanser evenly and building a lather. 4. Cleanse skin gently but thoroughly. 5. Rinse face and/or body with warm water.
active_ingredient:
  Active Ingredients Active Ingredient: colloidal sulfur (2%)
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive Ingredients Inactive Ingredients: purified water, lauric acid, acrylates copolymer, cocamidopropyl betaine, potassium hydroxide, myristic acid, glycerin, ethylene glycol distearate, olive oil PEG-7 ester, hamamelis virginiana extract, polyquaternium-7, sodium laureth sulfate, DMDM tocopherol acetate, butyl hydroxy toluene, disodium EDTA, light fragrance.
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only. If swallowed, seek medical attention. Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes. In case of eye contact, flush with cold water. Keep out of reach of children.
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children CAUTION: For external use only. If swallowed, seek medical attention. Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes. In case of eye contact, flush with cold water. Keep out of reach of children.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Front and Back Labels Designed for daily use, KAVI DermaWash S2 provides an ideal approach to cleansing oily or combination skin. DermaWash S2 utilizes allergy-tested ingredients that are non-comedogenic, pH-balancing, and completely free of animal products. With the same dosage of sulfur as Coral KAVI, DermaWash S2 is best suited for the treatment of acne-prone skin. DermaWash S2 can be also used in preparation of the skin prior to administration of a KAVI chemical peel. DermaWash S2 is made with colloidal sulfur to enhance the hydrolipidic layer’s acidity and protect skin from bacterial infections. Suitable for use on the face and body, it is easy on the senses and a practical replacement to traditional animal-based soaps. Directions: 1. Rinse face and/or body with warm water. 2. Dispense 1 to 2 pumps of cleanser onto palm or washcloth. 3. Rub palms or washcloth together, spreading cleanser evenly and building a lather. 4. Cleanse skin gently but thoroughly. 5. Rinse face and/or body with warm water. Active Ingredient: colloidal sulfur (2%). Inactive Ingredients: purified water, lauric acid, acrylates copolymer, cocamidopropyl betaine, potassium hydroxide, myristic acid, glycerin, ethylene glycol distearate, olive oil PEG-7 ester, hamamelis virginiana extract, polyquaternium-7, sodium laureth sulfate, DMDM tocopherol acetate, butyl hydroxy toluene, disodium EDTA, light fragrance. CAUTION: For external use only. If swallowed, seek medical attention. Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes. In case of eye contact, flush with cold water. Keep out of reach of children. label front and back
set_id:
  5313266e-a04d-7118-e054-00144ff88e88
id:
  b221e710-f634-6af0-e053-2995a90a5969
effective_time:
  20201020
version:
  4
openfda:
