spl_product_data_elements:
  Docosanol Docosanol DOCOSANOL DOCOSANOL BENZYL ALCOHOL LIGHT MINERAL OIL PROPYLENE GLYCOL WATER SUCROSE DISTEARATE SUCROSE STEARATE
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Docosanol 10%
purpose:
  Purpose Cold sore/fever blister treatment
indications_and_usage:
  Uses treats cold sores/fever blisters on the face or lips shortens healing time and duration of symptoms: • tingling, pain, burning, and/or itching
warnings:
  Warnings Allergy Alert This product may cause a severe allergic reaction. Symptoms may include: • hives • facial swelling • wheezing/difficulty breathing • shock • rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. For external use only
do_not_use:
  Do not use if you are allergic to any ingredient in this product
when_using:
  When using this product apply only to the affected areas do not use in or near the eyes avoid applying directly inside your mouth do not share this product with anyone. This may spread the infection.
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if your cold sore gets worse or the cold sore is not healed within 10 days
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions adults and children 12 years or over: wash hands before and after applying cream apply to affected area on the face or lips at the first sign of cold sore/fever blister (tingle). early treatment ensures the best results rub in gently but completely use 5 times a day until healed children under 12 years: ask a doctor
spl_unclassified_section:
  Other information store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) do not freeze
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol, light mineral oil, propylene glycol, purified water, sucrose distearate, sucrose stearate
questions:
  Questions? 1-888-838-2872 between 9 am and 5 pm ET, Monday–Friday. Docosanol Cream, 10% Thank you for purchasing Docosanol Cream. We hope that since Docosanol Cream shortens the healing time of cold sores, it helps you look and feel better faster. Please follow insert directions for proper use and refer to the information below. You are not alone An estimated one-in-five Americans is affected by cold sores each year. Most people who experience them get two to three cold sore outbreaks each year. Just before and during an outbreak, the cold sore infection can be easily passed on to others. It is especially important to be aware of early warning signs that a cold sore is coming, and to be sure to avoid close physical contact when you have one. Getting to the Root of the Problem A blister, or cluster of blisters around your mouth, is caused by the cold sore virus. After the cold sore has healed, the virus stays dormant in your body but can be reactivated by everyday triggers like stress, sunlight, extreme hot or cold weather, colds and flu, lack of sleep, or menstruation. The Sooner, the Better A typical cold sore outbreak can last as long as seven to ten days. The sooner you begin using Docosanol Cream, the more effective the medicine will be. So for best results, use Docosanol Cream at the very start of the cold sore - when you feel the first sign of the tingle, redness, bump or itch. Docosanol Cream is different from other over-the-counter cold sore products. Only Docosanol Cream contains 10% docosanol, which helps to shorten the healing time of cold sores and the duration of symptoms including tingling, pain, itching and burning. Frequently Asked Questions: How is Docosanol Cream different from the over-the-counter cold sore remedies I have already been using? Docosanol Cream is a non-prescription cold sore medicine that can actually shorten healing time and the duration of symptoms. The sooner you start using Docosanol Cream, the sooner you can begin healing your cold sore. Who can use Docosanol Cream? Adults and children 12 years and over can use Docosanol Cream. How often can I apply Docosanol Cream? Docosanol Cream should be used five times a day until the cold sore is healed. Apply it directly to the cold sore at the first sign of a tingle, redness, bump or itch for best results. Can I apply cosmetics on top of Docosanol Cream? Yes, cosmetics such as lipstick may be applied over Docosanol Cream. However, use a separate applicator, like a cotton swab, to apply cosmetics over an unhealed cold sore to avoid spreading the infection. For best results, remove any cosmetics prior to applying Docosanol Cream. Made in the USA Distributed by: Actavis Pharma, Inc. Parsippany, NJ 07054 USA Revised – March 2016
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Actavis NDC 0591- 2981 -35 Compare to the active ingredient in Abreva ® ** Docosanol Cream, 10% Cold Sore/Fever Blister Treatment Non-prescription Medicine to Shorten Healing Time* Cold Sore Treatment For Topical Use Only Net Wt. 2g (.07 oz) image image
set_id:
  615208fb-3fab-4690-8d92-1517bfd6fc27
id:
  047b31f9-ec21-48d7-bace-9160e5035c91
effective_time:
  20211019
version:
  3
openfda:
