effective_time:
  20191219
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients Ethanol (beet), purified water
purpose:
  Uses For the temporary relief of symptoms associated with mild gastrointestinal upset.
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children.
warnings:
  Warnings Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist or worsen. If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
spl_product_data_elements:
  ENTEROLINER Chamomilla, Chininum arsenicosum, Colocynthis, Mercurius corrosivus, Phosphoricum acidum, Veratrum album PHOSPHORIC ACID PHOSPHORIC ACID VERATRUM ALBUM ROOT VERATRUM ALBUM ROOT ALCOHOL WATER CITRULLUS COLOCYNTHIS FRUIT PULP CITRULLUS COLOCYNTHIS FRUIT PULP MATRICARIA RECUTITA MATRICARIA RECUTITA QUININE ARSENATE QUININE ARSENATE MERCURIC CHLORIDE MERCURIC CATION
other_safety_information:
  Other information Do not use if seal is missing or broken. Store in a cool, dry place.
openfda:
version:
  2
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions To be taken ten minutes away from food. Invert bottle and shake lightly allowing drops to fall directly under the tongue or into ¼ oz of water. Hold contents for about 20 seconds and swallow. To promote drop flow, invert bottle and shake before each use. Dosage frequency may be increased up to six times daily depending on the severity of symptoms. Adults and adolescents (12 years and older) Take 10 drops three times daily or as recommended by your healthcare practitioner. Children (under 12 years) Take under the direction of your healthcare practitioner.
pregnancy_or_breast_feeding:
  If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  NDC 62106-2023-0 UNDA vanocomplex 4 ENTEROLINER Homeopathic Preparation For the temporary relief of symptoms associated with mild gastrointestinal upset. Contains 30% Alcohol 1.7 fl oz (50 mL) 62106-2023
indications_and_usage:
  Uses For the temporary relief of symptoms associated with mild gastrointestinal upset. Directions To be taken ten minutes away from food. Invert bottle and shake lightly allowing drops to fall directly under the tongue or into ¼ oz of water. Hold contents for about 20 seconds and swallow. To promote drop flow, invert bottle and shake before each use. Dosage frequency may be increased up to six times daily depending on the severity of symptoms. Adults and adolescents (12 years and older) Take 10 drops three times daily or as recommended by your healthcare practitioner. Children (under 12 years) Take under the direction of your healthcare practitioner.
set_id:
  3991ed57-932d-746b-e054-00144ff8d46c
id:
  9a164a27-16c1-7c72-e053-2995a90a3b1a
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredients Each drop contains: Chamomilla (German chamomile) Whole Plant 4X Chininum arsenicosum (Quinine arsenate) 6X Colocynthis (Colocynth) Fruit 6X Mercurius corrosivus (Mercury (II) chloride) 8X Phosphoricum acidum (Phosphoric acid) 3X Veratrum album (White hellebore) Rhizome and Root 6X
