spl_product_data_elements:
  equaline acid reducer Ranitidine RANITIDINE HYDROCHLORIDE RANITIDINE D&C YELLOW NO. 10 FD&C BLUE NO. 2 FD&C RED NO. 40 HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED MAGNESIUM STEARATE MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE TITANIUM DIOXIDE TRIACETIN RT
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient (in each tablet) Ranitidine 75 mg (as ranitidine hydrochloride 84 mg)
purpose:
  Purpose Acid reducer
indications_and_usage:
  Uses • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain foods and beverages
warnings:
  Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to ranitidine or other acid reducers
do_not_use:
  Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools. These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. • with other acid reducers
ask_doctor:
  Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition. • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days
pregnancy_or_breast_feeding:
  If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use.
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222).
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions • adults and children 12 years and over: • to relieve symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water • to prevent symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 30 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • can be used up to twice daily (do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours) • do not chew tablet • children under 12 years: ask a doctor
storage_and_handling:
  Other information • do not use if printed foil under bottle cap is open or torn • store at 20 ° -25 ° C (68 ° -77 ° F) • avoid excessive heat or humidity • this product is sodium and sugar free
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients D&C yellow #10 aluminum lake, FD&C blue #2 aluminum lake, FD&C red #40 aluminum lake, hypromellose, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, titanium dioxide, triacetin
questions:
  Questions or comments? 1-877-932-7948
spl_unclassified_section:
  Consumer information What you should know about Regular Strength Ranitidine Tablets, 75 mg Acid Reducer (Please read all of this information before taking Ranitidine Tablets, 75 mg. Save this leaflet for future reference.) What are Ranitidine Tablets, 75 mg? • Ranitidine Tablets, 75 mg contain 75 mg of ranitidine (as ranitidine hydrochloride, 84 mg), a medicine that doctors have prescribed more than 200 million times worldwide. Excellent Safety Record • Ranitidine Tablets, 75 mg have been used safely and effectively for years as an over-the-counter medication. • Ranitidine Tablets, 75 mg are sodium and sugar free. What symptoms do Ranitidine Tablets, 75 mg relieve and prevent? • Ranitidine Tablets, 75 mg relieve and prevent heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach. Certain foods or beverages, and even lying down to sleep, can cause heartburn associated with acid indigestion or sour stomach. It is normal for the stomach to produce acid, especially after consuming food or beverages. However, acid in the wrong place, such as the esophagus, or too much acid, can cause burning pain and discomfort. How should I take Ranitidine Tablets, 75 mg? • To relieve symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water. • To prevent symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 30 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn. This medicine can be used up to twice daily (do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours). • Do not chew tablet Ranitidine Tablets, 75 mg should not be given to children under 12 years old unless directed by a doctor. • Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to ranitidine or other acid reducers How do Ranitidine Tablets, 75 mg work? • Ranitidine Tablets, 75 mg reduce the production of stomach acid. This is what makes Ranitidine Tablets, 75 mg different from antacids, which neutralize the acid already in your stomach. Antacids do not reduce the production of acid. Additional tips for managing heartburn • Do not lie flat or bend over soon after eating • Do not eat late at night, or just before bedtime • Certain foods or drinks are more likely to cause heartburn, such as rich, spicy, fatty, and fried foods, chocolate, caffeine, alcohol, even some fruits and vegetables • Eat slowly and do not eat big meals • If you are overweight, lose weight • If you smoke, quit smoking • Raise the head of your bed • Wear loose fitting clothing around your stomach Clinical studies prove Ranitidine Tablets, 75 mg are effective in relieving and preventing heartburn. In clinical studies, Ranitidine Tablets, 75 mg were significantly better than placebo pills. Percent of Heartburn Episodes Relieved Percent of Patients with Prevention or Reduction of Heartburn Symptoms When should I see a doctor? • Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools. These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. • with other acid reducers • Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition. • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a healthcare professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) Questions {or comments}? BOTTLES: Bottle is sealed with printed foil under cap. Do not use if printed foil is open or torn. BLISTERS: Do not use if the individual blister unit is open or torn. Distributed By Perrigo ® Allegan, MI 49010 : 87600 00 J1 Ranitidine Illustration Ranitidine Table 1 Ranitidine Table 2
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Package/Label Principal Display Panel compare to Zantac 75® active ingredient regular strength acid reducer ranitidine tablets USP, 75mg (acid reducer) PREVENTS & RELIEVES HEARTBURN associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach actual size 30 tablets (30 doses) acid-reducer-image
set_id:
  1e7028ba-3141-40aa-9c91-07945adaa00a
id:
  dc2be0f3-b570-4e00-b406-719f0154ca6a
effective_time:
  20211119
version:
  2
openfda:
