spl_product_data_elements:
  Fungicure Liquid Gel Clotrimazole CLOTRIMAZOLE CLOTRIMAZOLE ISOPROPYL ALCOHOL HYDROXYPROPYL CELLULOSE (TYPE M)
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Clotrimazole 1% w/w.
purpose:
  Purpose Antifungal
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a poison center right away.
indications_and_usage:
  Uses For the cure of most: ringworm (tinea corpis) athlete's foot (tinea pedis) For relief of: itching scaling cracking burning redness soreness irritation discomforts which may accompany these conditions
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only. Ask a doctor before use on children under 2 years of age. When using this product avoid contact with the eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs there is no improvement within 4 weeks
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredient Hydroxypropylcellulose and Isopropyl alcohol
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions Read and all package directions and warnings before using. Use only as directed. Clean the affected area with soap with warm water and dry thoroughly. Apply a thin layer of FUNGICURE over the affected area twice daily (morning and night), or as directed by a doctor. This product is not effective on the scalp or nails. Avoid applying to severly cracked or irritated areas. For ringworm and athlete's foot, use daily for 4 weeks. If condition persists longer, consult a doctor. For athlete's foot: pay special attention to spaces between toes; wear well fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily. Intented for use by normally healthy adults only. Persons under 18 years of age or those with highly sensitive or allergic skin should use only as directed by a doctor. Supervise children in the use of this product.
other_safety_information:
  Other information FUNGICURE may be applied to exposed nail-beds, cuticles, around nail edges and under nail tips where reachable with its applicator brush This product is not intended to, nor will it, penetrate hard nail surfaces. While not all finger and toe fungal infections are curable with OTC topical medications, if you see improvement within 4 weeks of use, you may continue to use FUNGICURE until satisfactory results are obtained. You may report serious side effects to the phone number provided under Questions? below
questions:
  Questions? 1-800-792-2582
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  label
set_id:
  7fa89075-5501-3441-e053-2991aa0ae0ff
id:
  7fa91843-c901-f51b-e053-2991aa0adb6a
effective_time:
  20190117
version:
  1
openfda:
