effective_time:
  20191219
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients Ethanol (beet), purified water, glycerin
purpose:
  Uses For the temporary relief of symptoms associated with mild digestive upset.
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children.
warnings:
  Warnings Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist or worsen. If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
spl_product_data_elements:
  Gastrunda Anacardium orientale, Argentum nitricum, Arsenicum album, Atropinum sulfuricum, Bismuthum subnitricum, Condurango Bark, Hamamelis virginiana, Hydrastis canadensis, Kalium bichromicum CASHEW CASHEW SILVER NITRATE SILVER CATION MARSDENIA CONDURANGO BARK MARSDENIA CONDURANGO BARK ARSENIC TRIOXIDE ARSENIC CATION (3+) ATROPINE SULFATE ATROPINE BISMUTH SUBNITRATE BISMUTH CATION HAMAMELIS VIRGINIANA BARK HAMAMELIS VIRGINIANA BARK GOLDENSEAL GOLDENSEAL POTASSIUM DICHROMATE DICHROMATE ION ALCOHOL WATER GLYCERIN
other_safety_information:
  Other information Do not use if seal is missing or broken. Store in a cool, dry place.
openfda:
version:
  3
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions To be taken ten minutes away from food. Invert bottle and shake lightly allowing drops to fall directly under the tongue or into ¼ oz of water. Hold contents for about 20 seconds and swallow. To promote drop flow, invert bottle and shake before each use. Dosage frequency may be increased up to six times daily depending on the severity of symptoms. Adults and adolescents (12 years and older) Take 10 drops three times daily or as recommended by your healthcare practitioner. Children (under 12 years) Take under the direction of your healthcare practitioner.
pregnancy_or_breast_feeding:
  If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  NDC 62106-2025-0 UNDA plex GASTRUNDA Homeopathic Preparation For the temporary relief of symptoms associated with mild digestive upset. Contains 30% Alcohol 0.7 fl oz (20 mL) 62106-2025
indications_and_usage:
  Uses For the temporary relief of symptoms associated with mild digestive upset. Directions To be taken ten minutes away from food. Invert bottle and shake lightly allowing drops to fall directly under the tongue or into ¼ oz of water. Hold contents for about 20 seconds and swallow. To promote drop flow, invert bottle and shake before each use. Dosage frequency may be increased up to six times daily depending on the severity of symptoms. Adults and adolescents (12 years and older) Take 10 drops three times daily or as recommended by your healthcare practitioner. Children (under 12 years) Take under the direction of your healthcare practitioner.
set_id:
  308c6667-c8ab-0a3d-e054-00144ff88e88
id:
  9a167396-0cb8-9a80-e053-2a95a90a3abc
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredients Each drop contains: Anacardium orientale (Oriental cashew nut) Fruit 6X Argentum nitricum (Silver nitrate) 4X Arsenicum album (Arsenic trioxide) 6X Atropinum sulfuricum (Atropine sulfate) 4X Bismuthum subnitricum (Basic bismutnitrate) 8X Condurango Bark 2X Hamamelis virginiana (Witch hazel) Bark 2X Hydrastis canadensis (Goldenseal) Underground Parts 4X Kalium bichromicum (Potassium bichromate) 4X
