spl_product_data_elements:
  Germ Shark PX7 Hand Jumbo Hand Sanitizing Wipes ALCOHOL WATER GLYCERIN HYDROGEN PEROXIDE ALCOHOL ALCOHOL
spl_unclassified_section:
  Drug Facts
  Other Information • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40C (104F) • Store between 15-30C (59-86F)
active_ingredient:
  Active Ingredient(s) USA Made Ethanol (Ethyl) Alcohol 70% v/v Purpose Antiseptic
purpose:
  Purpose Antiseptic
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive Ingredients Purified Water USP, Glycerin (glycerol), Hyrodgen Peroxide, Fragrance *ingredients shown refer to liquid portion only, not to wipe fabric material
indications_and_usage:
  Use(s) *Hand wipes to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease. For use when soap and water are not available. Can be used on hands, arms and legs.
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only. Flammable. Keep away from heat or flame. Use in a well-ventillated area and avoid near sources of ignition. Do Not Use on children less than 2 months of age - supervise use by children on open skin wounds keep out of reach of children and pets for personal hygiene or as a make-up removing wipes as a baby wipe or diaper wipe When using this product keep out of eyes, ears, and mouth. In case of contact with eyes, rinse eyes thoroughly with water. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation, redness or rash occurs for over 72 hours. These may be signs of a serious condition. Keep out of reach of children. If eaten, swallowed or chewed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
do_not_use:
  Do Not Use on children less than 2 months of age - supervise use by children on open skin wounds keep out of reach of children and pets for personal hygiene or as a make-up removing wipes as a baby wipe or diaper wipe
when_using:
  When using this product keep out of eyes, ears, and mouth. In case of contact with eyes, rinse eyes thoroughly with water.
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation, redness or rash occurs for over 72 hours. These may be signs of a serious condition.
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If eaten, swallowed or chewed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions Open box and zipped plastic pouch to thread first wipe (from center of roll) through the plastic lid. Don't remove all the wipes. Zip pouch closed around the wipe. then re-close the lid & box. Gently pull one wipe from the dispenser, pulling at an angle and in a downward motion. Wipe your hands using the wipe thoroughly and let hands dry. Supervise children under 10 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing. Let hands completely dry before touching a stove or bbq or coming in close contact with any other open flame. For best results, clean excessively dirty areas before using wipes. Do Not flush wipes. We recommend that you dispose of them in the trash. Flushing wipes can cause damage to plumbing.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Package Labeling: Lable2
set_id:
  ff4a76b9-8cf6-470b-8a4f-c41c1c046196
id:
  af8327ac-e0a4-f222-e053-2a95a90a0a41
effective_time:
  20200917
version:
  2
openfda:
