spl_product_data_elements:
  Hair Illusion 5% Minoxidil Foam Minoxidil MINOXIDIL MINOXIDIL BIOTIN WATER PROPYLENE GLYCOL HYALURONIC ACID COCAMIDOPROPYL BETAINE HAIR KERATIN AMINO ACIDS TOCOPHEROL GLYCERIN XANTHAN GUM AMINO ACIDS, SILK ALLANTOIN ALOE VERA LEAF CITRUS PARADISI SEED REYNOUTRIA JAPONICA WHOLE
spl_unclassified_section:
  Drug Facts
  HAIR REGROWTH TREATMENT Dermatologist Recommended Active Ingredient Easy to use FOAM REVITALIZES HAIR FOLLICLES with added BIOTIN Clinically Proven to Help Regrow Hair Not For Use By Women One Month Supply Three-Month Supply Hair Illusion Hair Regrowth Treatment is formulated with a unique blend including 5% Minoxidil and Biotin for revitalizing hair follicles, treating thinning hair, receding hairlines, mild to moderate male pattern baldness and general hair loss. The easy to apply foam is suitable for all hair types and textures. For best results: • Apply Twice Daily • Apply Directly to Scalp 100% SATISFACTION GUARANTEED Hair Illusion Inc. 20725 N.E. 16th Ave Unit A44 Miami FL 33179 www.Hairillusion.com
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Minoxidil 5% w/w
purpose:
  Purpose Hair regrowth treatment
indications_and_usage:
  Use • Minoxidil is used to stimulate hair growth and to slow balding. Minoxidil is a medication used for the treatment of hair loss. It stimulates hair growth and thickness where applied. Thus, minoxidil can be used for stimulation of beard growth in men.
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only. Extremely Flammable: Avoid fire, flame, or smoking during and immediately following application. Do not use if • you have no family history of hair loss • hair loss is sudden and/or patchy • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • you are under 18 years of age. Do not use on babies and children. • scalp is red, inflamed, infected, irritated, or painful • you use other medicines on the scalp When using this product • Avoid contact with the eyes. In case of accidental contact, rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water. • It takes time to regrow hair. You may need to use this product 2 times a day for at least 4 months before you see results. • The amount of hair regrowth is different for each person. This product will not work for everyone. Stop use and ask a doctor if • chest pain, rapid heart beat, faintness, or dizziness occurs • sudden, unexplained weight gain occurs • your hands or feet swell • scalp irritation or redness occurs • you get unwanted facial hair growth • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions • Apply one pump of the topical foam to the scalp in the area to be treated. Massage into the scalp with your fingers, then wash hands thoroughly. • Using more hair regrowth foam or using the foam more often will not improve your results. • Continued use is necessary to increase and then maintain your hair regrowth. Discontinuing use may result in hair loss. USING THE PRODUCT • Dispense on pump of topical foam onto dry fingers. • Spread the foam over the targeted regrowth area, massaging the foam into the scalp. • Thoroughly wash your hands after applying to the scalp. • Replace the cap to prevent the foam from drying out.
storage_and_handling:
  Other information • Before use, read all information on carton • Keep the carton. It contains important information. • Store at controlled room temperature 20° to 25° C (68° to 77° F) • Contents under pressure. Do not puncture or incinerate container. Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120° F (49° C)
inactive_ingredient:
  INGREDIENTS: 5% Minoxidil, Biotin, Aqua (Water), Propylene Glycol, Hyaluronic Acid, Cocamidopropyl Betaine, Keratin Amino Acids, Tocopherol (Vitamin C), Glycerin, Xanthan Gum, Capryloyl Silk Amino Acids, Allantoin, Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract, Citrus Paradisi (Grapefruit) Seed Extract, Polygonum Cuspidatum (Japanese Knotweed) Extract.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Packaging HairIllusion-999 HairIllusion-999
set_id:
  0871d193-e6c4-7c88-e063-6294a90a3b2f
id:
  b444c82c-6d45-4e5c-856a-8676a321d59e
effective_time:
  20231103
version:
  3
openfda:
