spl_product_data_elements:
  HAND SANITIZER ALCOHOL ALCOHOL ALCOHOL WATER GLYCERIN CARBOXYMETHYLCELLULOSE
active_ingredient:
  Active Ingredient Ethyl Alcohol v/v 70%
purpose:
  Purposes Antimicrobial
indications_and_usage:
  Uses -Hand sanitizer to decrease virus and bacteria on the skin that could cause diseases -Recommended for repeated use
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only: hands Flammable, keep away from fire or flame
do_not_use:
  When use this product keep out of eyes, do not use in or near the eyes. In case of contact eye flush thorougly with water avoid contact with broken skin do not inhale or ingest
when_using:
  When using this product Keep out of eyes, do not use in or near the eyes
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation and redness develop condition persist for more than 72 hours. Keep out reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  keep out of reach of children if swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Center right away
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions -Put enough product in your palm to cover hands and rub hands together briskly until dry out without wiping -For children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using OZO -Not recommended for infants
storage_and_handling:
  Other information Store below 105 F (40C) May discolor certain fabrics Harmful to wood finishes and plastics
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients Purified water (aqua), Vegetable Glycerin and carboxymethyl cellulose
questions:
  Question o comments? Visit www.ozo.com.mx or e-mail us customerservice@ozo.com.mx
warnings_and_cautions:
  For the 20 lt, 200lt and 1000lt label Keep in original container an away form heat, open flames, combustible materials and hot surfaces, no smoking,- Harmful is Swallowed" First aid: first check the victim for contact eyes lenses and removes if presents. Flush victim's eye with water or normal saline solution for 20 to 30 minutes while simultaneoulsy calling a hospital or poison control center, Do not put any oinments, oils, medication in the victim's eye without specific instructions from a physician. IMMEDIATELY transport the victim after flushing eyes to a hospital even if no symptoms (such as redness or irritation) develop. INGESTION: DO NOT INDUCE VOMIT. Volatile chemicals have a high risk of being aspirated into the victims lungs during vomiting wich increase the medical problems. If the victim is conscious and not convulsing, give 1 or 2 glasses of water to dilute the chemical and IMMEDIATLY transport the victim to a hospital. If the victim is convulsing or unconscious, do not give anything by mouth, ensure that the victims airway is open and lay the victim on his/her side with the head lower than the body. DO NOT INDUCE VOMITING. IMMEDIATLY transport the victim to a hospital: Firefighting CAUTION: all these products have a very low flash point: use water spray when fighting fire may be inefficient: CAUTION: Alcohol-resistant foam should be used.SMALL FIRE: Dry Chemicals, co2, water spray or alcohol-resistant foam. LARGE FIRE: Water spray, fog or alcohol resistant foam. Do not use straight streams. Move containers from fire area if you can do it without risk. FIRE INVOLVING TANKS OR CAR/TRAILERS LOADS: Fight fire for maximun distance or use unmanned hose holders or monito nozzles: Cool containers with flooding quiantities of water until well after fire is out. Withdraw immediatly in case of rising sounf from venting safety devices or discoloration of thank. ALWAYS stay away from tanks engulfed in fire. For massive fire, use unmaned hose holders or monitor nozzles; if this is imposible. Withdraw from area and let the fire burn.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Principal display efiiciently kills 99.9% of most illness causing germs ozone hand sanitizer gel leaves hands soft contains moisturizers paraben free phthalate free formaldehyde Donor Free label 3.8lt label 60 ml label 250 ml label 1000 ml label 500 ml label 20 lt label 200 lt label 1000 lt label 30 ml
set_id:
  a51529c3-75f4-9e2b-e053-2995a90a4ff9
id:
  a861693c-0b79-78fa-e053-2995a90a69a5
effective_time:
  20200618
version:
  3
openfda:
