spl_product_data_elements:
  Hand Sanitizer Ethyl Alcohol ALCOHOL ALCOHOL WATER POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL 300 ISOPROPYL ALCOHOL GLYCERIN ISOPROPYL MYRISTATE ALOE VERA LEAF .ALPHA.-TOCOPHEROL ACETATE, DL-
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Ethyl Alcohol 65% Purpose Antiseptic
purpose:
  Purpose Antiseptic
indications_and_usage:
  Uses for personal hand hygiene to help prevent the spread of bacteria, and can be used in place of hand washing if soap and water are not available.
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only flammable keep away from source of heat or fire When using this product avoid contact with eyes. If contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water. Do not inhale. Do not use on children less than 2 months of age on open skin wounds on broken or damaged skin if you are pregnant or breastfeeding Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or redness develops and lasts. Keep out of reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately.
when_using:
  When using this product avoid contact with eyes. If contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water. Do not inhale. Do not use on children less than 2 months of age on open skin wounds on broken or damaged skin if you are pregnant or breastfeeding Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or redness develops and lasts. Keep out of reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately.
do_not_use:
  Do not use on children less than 2 months of age on open skin wounds on broken or damaged skin if you are pregnant or breastfeeding Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or redness develops and lasts. Keep out of reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately.
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or redness develops and lasts. Keep out of reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately.
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately.
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions Adults only For occasional and personal use Rub thoroughly into hands for at least 30 seconds. Allow to dry
storage_and_handling:
  Other information store at a temperature below 110°F (43°C) may discolor certain fabrics or surfaces
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients Water, PEG-6, Fragrance, Isopropyl Alcohol, Glycerin, Isopropyl Myristate, Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice, Tocopheryl Acetate, AMP-Acrylates/Vinyl Isodecanoate Crosspolymer.
questions:
  Questions or comments? 1-866-695-3030
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Label copy image of the label
set_id:
  a1402189-c30a-429b-90a4-cbd0bcdfe223
id:
  747c6e61-b891-4fed-9d59-351f5fc2e11a
effective_time:
  20200714
version:
  1
openfda:
