effective_time:
  20190110
inactive_ingredient:
  Preservative : Sodium Benzoate Additives : Allantoin, Glycerin, Ethyl alcohol, Xylitol, Citric Acid Hydrate, Sodium Citrate Hydrate, Caramel Colorant, Glycyrrhiza Inflata Root Extract, Sophora Angustifolia Root Extract, Swertia Japonica Extract, camellia sinensis catechins, Red Ginseng Extract, Saccharin Sodium Hydrate, Polyoxyl 40 Hydrogenated Castor Oil, L-Menthol, Fragrance(Peach Flavor 7), DI-Water
purpose:
  It keeps your teeth white, strong, and clean your mouth. It makes your mouth feel fresh, prevent cavities, and remove bad breath. Increase the aesthetic effect. Prevent gingivitis, periodontitis (pyorrhoea alveolaris), periodontal disease, and gum disease.
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children
warnings:
  ● Caution : 1) The fluoride content of toothpaste is 90.5 ppm. 2) Take care not to swallow, and rinse your mouth thoroughly after use. 3) If gum or mouth damage is caused by using this toothpaste, stop using it and consult a doctor or dentist. 4) If used by children under the age of six years, use small amount of toothpaste about the size of peas at a time. Use under supervision of a guardian to avoid sucking or swallowing. 5) If a child under 6 years old swallows a large amount, consult a physician or dentist immediately. 6) Keep out of the reach of children under 6 years old. 7) This medicine contains sodium benzoate which can cause slight irritation to the skin, eyes and mucous membrane. 8) This product contains fluoride and ethanol and requires guidance from parents or adults when used by children. 9) This product contains ethanol(alcohol), so be careful when testing ethanol(alcohol) immediately after use as this product may affect the results of drinking measurement.
spl_product_data_elements:
  Haring B Detox Mouthwash Allantoin, Sodium fluoride XYLITOL LEVOMENTHOL SODIUM FLUORIDE FLUORIDE ION ALLANTOIN
openfda:
version:
  1
dosage_and_administration:
  For dental use only
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  3
indications_and_usage:
  ● Administration and doses : Hold a suitable amount (10~15ml) in your mouth for about 30 seconds, then spit it out, and brush your teeth with a brush.
set_id:
  7f154579-1e91-5864-e053-2a91aa0aa76c
id:
  7f154579-1e92-5864-e053-2a91aa0aa76c
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient : Sodium fluoride
