effective_time:
  20171121
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide, croscarmellose sodium, diethyl phthalate, FD&C yellow #6 aluminum lake, hypromellose, iron oxide red, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose and titanium dioxide
purpose:
  Purpose Acid reducer
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222)
warnings:
  Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to ranitidine or other acid reducers Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools. These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. • with other acid reducers • if you have kidney disease, except under the advice and supervision of a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition. • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating, or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222)
questions:
  Questions or comments? 1-866-322-2439
spl_product_data_elements:
  healthy accents ranitidine Ranitidine RANITIDINE HYDROCHLORIDE RANITIDINE SILICON DIOXIDE CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM DIETHYL PHTHALATE HYPROMELLOSES FERRIC OXIDE RED MAGNESIUM STEARATE CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE TITANIUM DIOXIDE W;741
ask_doctor:
  Ask a doctor before use if you have • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition. • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating, or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness
openfda:
version:
  3
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions • adults and children 12 years and over: • to relieve symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water • to prevent symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 30 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • can be used up to twice daily (do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours) • children under 12 years: ask a doctor
pregnancy_or_breast_feeding:
  If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use.
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days
spl_unclassified_section:
  Consumer Information What you should know about MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets USP, 150 mg Acid Reducer (Please read all of this information before taking MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets 150 mg. Save this leaflet for future reference.) What are MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets 150 mg? • MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets 150 mg contain 150 mg of ranitidine (as ranitidine hydrochloride, 168 mg), a medicine that doctors have prescribed more than 200 million times worldwide. What symptoms do MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets 150 mg treat and prevent? MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets 150 mg relieve and prevent heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach. Certain foods or beverages, and even lying down to sleep, can cause heartburn associated with acid indigestion or sour stomach. It is normal for the stomach to produce acid, especially after consuming food or beverages. However, acid in the wrong place, such as the esophagus, or too much acid, can cause burning pain and discomfort. Excellent safety Record • The ingredient in MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets 150 mg, ranitidine, has been prescribed by doctors for years to treat millions of patients safely and effectively. The active ingredient in MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets 150 mg has been taken safely with many frequently prescribed medications. • MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets 150 mg are sugar free. How should I take MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets 150 mg? • To relieve symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water. • To prevent symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 30 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn. This medicine can be used up to twice daily (do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours). MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets 150 mg should not be given to children under 12 years old unless directed by a doctor. How do MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets 150 mg work? MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets 150 mg reduce the production of stomach acid. This is what makes MAXIMUM STRENGTH Ranitidine Tablets 150 mg different from antacids, which neutralize the acid already in your stomach. Antacids do not reduce the production of acid. Tips for managing heartburn • Do not lie flat or bend over soon after eating • Do not eat late at night, or just before bedtime • Certain foods or drinks are more likely to cause heartburn, such as rich, spicy, fatty, and fried foods, chocolate, caffeine, alcohol, even some fruits and vegetables • Eat slowly and do not eat big meals • If you are overweight, lose weight • If you smoke, quit smoking • Raise the head of your bed • Wear loose fitting clothing around your stomach • Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to ranitidine or other acid reducers When should I see a doctor? • Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools. These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor • with other acid reducers • if you have kidney disease, except under the advice and supervision of a doctor • Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition. • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days • If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. • Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Questions or comments? 1-800-719-9260 BOTTLES: Bottle is sealed with printed foil under cap. Do not use if printed foil is open or torn. Bottle contains desiccant. BLISTERS: Do not use if the individual blister unit is open or torn. DISTRIBUTED BY PERRIGO® ALLEGAN, MI 49010 U.S.A. Made in India 04700 00 J3 Revision 06/08 Heartburn image
storage_and_handling:
  Other information • do not use if printed foil under cap is broken or missing • avoid excessive heat or humidity • store at 20° - 25°C (68° - 77°F) • this product is sugar free
do_not_use:
  Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools. These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. • with other acid reducers • if you have kidney disease, except under the advice and supervision of a doctor
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Principal Display Panel maximum strength ranitidine tablets 150mg acid reducer prevents & relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach Compare to Zantac 150® active ingredient (# doses) {Replace "#" with the number of tablets in each package} Ranitidine Tablets 150mg Carton Image 1 Ranitidine Tablets 150mg Carton Image 1 Ranitidine Tablets 150mg Carton Image 2 Ranitidine Tablets 150mg Carton Image 1 Ranitidine Tablets 150mg Carton Image 2
indications_and_usage:
  Uses • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by certain foods and beverages
set_id:
  9fd808c0-c4a5-4142-955a-4079e45c3dbb
id:
  e8204e0b-97d4-4659-ae19-de18c5b33821
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient (in each tablet) Ranitidine 150 mg (as ranitidine hydrochloride 168 mg)
