effective_time:
  20120619
inactive_ingredient:
  Non-medicinal Ingredients: Natural flavours (cherry, wintermint), natural colours (carmine, elderberry), citric acid, isomalt, xylitol.
purpose:
  Recommended Use: For the temporary relief of cough and sore throat pain. Helps relieve nasal congestion and make nasal passages feel clearer. Helps shorten the duration and relieve symptoms of the common cold.
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN.
warnings:
  Risk Information: Consult a health care practitioner if symptoms persist or worsen, if sore throat symptoms are severe or persist for more than two days, if cough worsens, persists for more than seven days or is accompanied by high fever. Consult a health care practitioner prior to use if you take immunosuppressants or have a progressive systemic disease such as tuberculosis, leukosis, collagenosis or multiple sclerosis.
spl_product_data_elements:
  Herbon Sugar Free Cherry Menthol and Echinacea Purpurea Menthol Menthol Echinacea Purpurea Echinacea Purpurea Citric Acid Monohydrate Xylitol Slightly opaque deep red with deep pink speckles cherry, wintermint
openfda:
version:
  2
dosage_and_administration:
  Recommended Dose: Adolescents (10 to 14 years): Dissolve 1 lozenge slowly in the mouth three times daily or more as needed. Adults and adolescents (14 years and older): Dissolve 1 lozenge slowly in the mouth six times daily or more as needed. Note: Do not exceed 14 lozenges per day. Consult a health care practitioner for use beyond eight weeks.
storage_and_handling:
  STORE IN A COOL, DRY PLACE.
do_not_use:
  DO NOT USE IF BAG IS OPEN OR TORN.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 18 Lozenge Bag Herbon ® ECHINACEA Cough and Sore Throat Drops Sugar-Free Temporary Relief of Cough & Sore Throat Helps Ease Nasal Congestion ALL NATURALLY-SOURCED ACTIVE INGREDIENTS CHERRY REFRESHING BURSTS of WINTERMINT 18 Lozenges Principal Display Panel
indications_and_usage:
  INDICATIONS AND USAGE Recommended Use: For the temporary relief of cough and sore throat pain. Helps relieve nasal congestion and make nasal passages feel clearer. Helps shorten the duration and relieve symptoms of the common cold.
set_id:
  ebee3c17-57ad-4fc0-a5bb-cebc4adf25c9
id:
  8b615159-7f73-4979-a3dc-e4984b6f8134
active_ingredient:
  Medicinal Ingredients: Each lozenge contains: Echinacea (Echinacea purpurea) root extract 22:1 (equivalent to 162 mg dried herb) ................................7.35 mg Menthol (from Mentha arvensis leaf) .................................8 mg
