effective_time:
  20191007
precautions:
  PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria in some patients. Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids, use over large surface areas, prolonged use, and the addition of occlusive dressings. Therefore, patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests. If HPA axis suppression is noted, an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug, to reduce the frequency of application, or to substitute a less potent steroid. Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug. Infrequently, signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur, requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids. Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity (see PRECAUTIONS-Pediatric Use ). If irritation develops, topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted. In the presence of dermatological infections, the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted. If a favorable response does not occur promptly, the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled. Information for the Patient Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions: 1. This medication is to be used as directed by the physician. It is for external use only. Avoid contact with the eyes. 2. Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than for which it was prescribed. 3. The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped so as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician. 4. Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions, especially under occlusive dressing. 5. Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight-fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area, as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings. Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating HPA axis suppression: Urinary free cortisol test ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, and Impairment of Fertility Long-term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids. Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone and hydrocortisone have revealed negative results. Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels. The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids. Therefore, topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients, in large amounts, or for prolonged periods of time. Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk. Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant. Nevertheless, caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman. Pediatric Use Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid-induced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression and Cushing's syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio. Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome, and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids. Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include linear growth retardation, delayed weight gain, low plasma cortisol levels, and absence of response to ACTH stimulation. Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles, headaches, and bilateral papilledema. Administration of topical corticosteroids to pediatric patients should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen. Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of pediatric patients.
description:
  DESCRIPTION The topical corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used as anti-inflammatory and anti-pruritic agents. Hydrocortisone Cream USP, 1% and Hydrocortisone Cream USP, 2.5% contain hydrocortisone. Hydrocortisone is a white to practically white crystalline powder. Chemically, hydrocortisone is pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione, 11,17, 21-trihydroxy-, (11ß)-. Hydrocortisone has the molecular formula C 21 H 30 O 5 and molecular weight of 362.47. The structural formula is: Hydrocortisone Hydrocortisone Cream USP, 1% (Each gram contains 10 mg of Hydrocortisone); Hydrocortisone Cream USP, 2.5% (Each gram contains 25 mg of Hydrocortisone) in a base containing cetyl alcohol, isopropyl palmitate, methylparaben, mineral oil and lanolin alcohol, polyoxyl 40 stearate, polysorbate 60, propylene glycol monostearate, propylene glycol, propylparaben, purified water, sorbic acid, and sorbitan monostearate. Chemical Structure
general_precautions:
  General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria in some patients. Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids, use over large surface areas, prolonged use, and the addition of occlusive dressings. Therefore, patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests. If HPA axis suppression is noted, an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug, to reduce the frequency of application, or to substitute a less potent steroid. Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug. Infrequently, signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur, requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids. Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity (see PRECAUTIONS-Pediatric Use ). If irritation develops, topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted. In the presence of dermatological infections, the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted. If a favorable response does not occur promptly, the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled.
storage_and_handling:
  Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from freezing.
pharmacokinetics:
  Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle, the integrity of the epidermal barrier, and the use of occlusive dressings. Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin. Inflammation and/or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption. Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids. Thus, occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Once absorbed through the skin, topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids. Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees. Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys. Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile.
indications_and_usage:
  INDICATIONS AND USAGE Topical corticosteroids are indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses.
set_id:
  e05143f7-6d76-4492-9d49-7e3947d93c90
id:
  6e1b5938-c61a-4c1e-b017-b44631518549
description_table:
  <table width="90%"> <col width="90%"/> <tbody> <tr> <td styleCode="Botrule Toprule " valign="top"> <paragraph>Hydrocortisone  <renderMultiMedia ID="id393" referencedObject="MM1"/> </paragraph> </td> </tr> </tbody> </table>
teratogenic_effects:
  Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels. The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids. Therefore, topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients, in large amounts, or for prolonged periods of time.
pediatric_use:
  Pediatric Use Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid-induced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression and Cushing's syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio. Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome, and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids. Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include linear growth retardation, delayed weight gain, low plasma cortisol levels, and absence of response to ACTH stimulation. Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles, headaches, and bilateral papilledema. Administration of topical corticosteroids to pediatric patients should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen. Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of pediatric patients.
contraindications:
  CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation.
pregnancy:
  Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels. The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids. Therefore, topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients, in large amounts, or for prolonged periods of time.
nursing_mothers:
  Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk. Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant. Nevertheless, caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman.
spl_product_data_elements:
  Hydrocortisone Hydrocortisone Hydrocortisone Hydrocortisone water propylene glycol mineral oil lanolin alcohols isopropyl palmitate polysorbate 60 cetyl alcohol sorbitan monostearate polyoxyl 40 stearate sorbic acid methylparaben propylparaben
openfda:
version:
  4
dosage_and_administration:
  DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply to the affected area as a thin film 2 to 4 times daily depending on the severity of the condition. Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions. If an infection develops, the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted.
adverse_reactions:
  ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae and miliaria.
spl_unclassified_section:
  FOR DERMATOLOGICAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE Rx only
  Mfd. by: Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc., Brampton, Ontario, Canada L6T 1C1 Dist. by: Taro Pharmaceuticals U.S.A., Inc. , Hawthorne, NY 10532 Revised: November 2014 PK-4245-2 357 1114-2 Repackaged By: Preferred Pharmaceuticals Inc.
laboratory_tests:
  Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating HPA axis suppression: Urinary free cortisol test ACTH stimulation test
how_supplied:
  HOW SUPPLIED Hydrocortisone Cream USP, 2.5% is supplied in 28.35 g tubes - 68788-9715-2 Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from freezing.
information_for_patients:
  Information for the Patient Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions: 1. This medication is to be used as directed by the physician. It is for external use only. Avoid contact with the eyes. 2. Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than for which it was prescribed. 3. The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped so as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician. 4. Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions, especially under occlusive dressing. 5. Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight-fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area, as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28.35 g Tube Carton tubes - 68788-9715-2 28.35 g Hydrocortisone Cream USP, 2.5% FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY. NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE. Rx only Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children. TARO Repackaged By: Preferred Pharmaceuticals Inc.. Hydrocortisone Cream, USP 2.5 percent
clinical_pharmacology:
  CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical corticosteroids share anti-inflammatory, anti-pruritic and vasoconstrictive actions. The mechanism of anti-inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear. Various laboratory methods, including vasoconstrictor assays, are used to compare and predict potencies and/or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids. There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man. Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle, the integrity of the epidermal barrier, and the use of occlusive dressings. Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin. Inflammation and/or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption. Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids. Thus, occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Once absorbed through the skin, topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids. Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees. Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys. Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile.
carcinogenesis_and_mutagenesis_and_impairment_of_fertility:
  Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, and Impairment of Fertility Long-term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids. Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone and hydrocortisone have revealed negative results.
overdosage:
  OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects (see PRECAUTIONS ).
