spl_product_data_elements:
  Jujiafenhuangquan Yindaoshuan Policresulen Vaginal Suppository POLICRESULEN POLICRESULEN WATER
instructions_for_use:
  78 cases of cervical erosion patients were examined by TCT and HPV, excluded the cervical high intraepithelial lesions and human papillomavirus infection. Then treat with Policresulen Vaginal Suppository. The cervical condition and erosion degree were recorded clearly before treatment. Before sleeping, one suppository was put into the deep vagina, once every other day, two boxes as one course of treatment, three courses of treatment were used continuously, and further consultation at one month after stopping treatment. Chronic cervicitis is a common disease in married women. It refers to the infiltration of a large number of chronic inflammatory cells such as plasma cells and lymphocytes in the cervical stroma, accompanied by squamous metaplasia and hyperplasia of the cervical gland epithelium and stroma. It is a high risk factor for cervical cancer. Chronic cervicitis can be divided into four pathological types: cervical erosion, cervical polyp, cervical hypertrophy and cervical cyst. The most common pathological type is cervical erosion. Some patients may cause infection, bleeding, cervical stenosis, infertility and other symptoms after the treatment of cervical cryotherapy and microwave. Some patients have certain concerns. From January 2013 to December 2015, our hospital adopted the Policresulen Vaginal Suppository to treat cervical erosion with satisfactory effect. The report is as follows:
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Instruction for Usage of Policresulen Vaginal Suppository Please read the instruction carefully and use the product under the advice of doctor Warning: during pregnancy, especially in the last three months of pregnancy, any treatment of the cervix should not be used, while the treatment of the vagina and its surrounding areas can only be used when absolutely necessary. 【Name】Policresulen Vaginal Suppository Pin yin: Jujiafenhuangquan Yindaoshuan 【Ingredients】The main component of this product is Policresulen. Its chemical name is: m-cresol sulfonic acid and formaldehyde polymer. 【Character】This product is light red to light red brown suppository. CONTENT OF LABELING Package Label
set_id:
  13040102-aed4-9cb4-e063-6394a90a41bb
id:
  18024571-4506-6d51-e063-6294a90a1972
effective_time:
  20240509
version:
  4
openfda:
