effective_time:
  20120814
drug_interactions:
  INTERACTIONS Drugs which may interact with folate include: First generation anticonvulsants: High dose folic acid may result in decreased serum levels for first generation anticonvulsants (carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, valproic acid, valproate). This may possibly reduce first generation anticonvulsants' effectiveness and/or increase the frequency of seizure in susceptible patients. Nevertheless, caution should be used when prescribing folates among patients who are receiving treatment with first generation anticonvulsants. Second-generation anticonvulsants: Information on the effect on folate levels of second-generation anticonvulsants (including, but not limited to, lamotrigine) is limited and cannot be ruled out. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of Capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colchicine: Colchicine may decrease folate plasma levels. L-dopa: L-dopa may decrease folate plasma levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Caution should be exercised when using folate with folate antagonists. Patients, typically, should not be given folate simultaneously with a folate antagonist, for the purpose of reducing or preventing clinical toxicity, as the therapeutic effect of the antagonist may be nullified. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes, including, but not limited to pancreatin and pancrelipase: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Folate may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folate in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folate and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study.
inactive_ingredient:
  Ingredients: Folate (L-Methylfolate, or 6(S)-5-MTHF), TriPotassium Citrate, Citric Acid, Di Cal Phosphate, Microcrystalline Cellulose, Fumed Silica, Magnesium Stearate.
contraindications:
  CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients.
precautions:
  PRECAUTIONS General: Folates (including folic acid and reduced folates), when administered as a single agent in doses above 0.1 mg daily, may obscure the detection of B 12 deficiency (specifically, the administration of folic acid may reverse the hematological manifestations of B 12 deficiency, including pernicious anemia, while not addressing the neurological manifestations). Reduced folates may be less likely than folic acid to mask vitamin B 12 deficiency. Folate therapy alone is inadequate for the treatment of B 12 deficiency. PATIENT INFORMATION DuLeek™-Dp 15 is a prescription vitamin/medical food for use only under medical supervision and direction. INTERACTIONS Drugs which may interact with folate include: First generation anticonvulsants: High dose folic acid may result in decreased serum levels for first generation anticonvulsants (carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, valproic acid, valproate). This may possibly reduce first generation anticonvulsants' effectiveness and/or increase the frequency of seizure in susceptible patients. Nevertheless, caution should be used when prescribing folates among patients who are receiving treatment with first generation anticonvulsants. Second-generation anticonvulsants: Information on the effect on folate levels of second-generation anticonvulsants (including, but not limited to, lamotrigine) is limited and cannot be ruled out. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of Capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colchicine: Colchicine may decrease folate plasma levels. L-dopa: L-dopa may decrease folate plasma levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Caution should be exercised when using folate with folate antagonists. Patients, typically, should not be given folate simultaneously with a folate antagonist, for the purpose of reducing or preventing clinical toxicity, as the therapeutic effect of the antagonist may be nullified. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes, including, but not limited to pancreatin and pancrelipase: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Folate may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folate in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folate and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study.
warnings:
  WARNINGS Caution is recommended in patients with a history of bipolar illness.
spl_product_data_elements:
  L-Methylfolate Calcium LEVOMEFOLATE CALCIUM LEVOMEFOLATE CALCIUM LEVOMEFOLIC ACID POTASSIUM CITRATE ANHYDROUS CITRIC ACID MONOHYDRATE CALCIUM PHOSPHATE, DIBASIC, ANHYDROUS CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE SILICON DIOXIDE MAGNESIUM STEARATE T545
description:
  DESCRIPTION DuLeek™-Dp 7.5 is an orally administered prescription vitamin/medical food. Each tablet contains the following Dietary Ingredient: Folate (as L-Methylfolate Calcium, or 6(S)-5-MTHF-Ca). . . 7.5 mg Ingredients: Folate (L-Methylfolate, or 6(S)-5-MTHF), TriPotassium Citrate, Citric Acid, Di Cal Phosphate, Microcrystalline Cellulose, Fumed Silica, Magnesium Stearate.
openfda:
version:
  1
dosage_and_administration:
  DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual adult dose is 7.5 to 15 mg daily with or without food or as directed under medical supervision.
adverse_reactions:
  ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid, as well as possibly the use of other forms of folates – including reduced folates.
spl_unclassified_section:
  Tablets R x Only
  Manufactured For: Seton Pharmaceuticals Manasquan, NJ 08736 1-800-510-3401 MADE IN CANADA 05/10 SETON PHARMACEUTICALS
general_precautions:
  General: Folates (including folic acid and reduced folates), when administered as a single agent in doses above 0.1 mg daily, may obscure the detection of B 12 deficiency (specifically, the administration of folic acid may reverse the hematological manifestations of B 12 deficiency, including pernicious anemia, while not addressing the neurological manifestations). Reduced folates may be less likely than folic acid to mask vitamin B 12 deficiency. Folate therapy alone is inadequate for the treatment of B 12 deficiency.
storage_and_handling:
  STORAGE Store at controlled room temperature 15°-30°C (59° to 86°F). [See USP]. Protect from light and moisture. Dispense in original light-resistant container. Call your doctor about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. R x Only Reserved for Professional Recommendation All prescriptions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable. This is not an Orange Book product. This product may be administered only under a physician’s supervision. There are no implied or explicit claims on therapeutic equivalence.
how_supplied:
  HOW SUPPLIED DuLeek™-Dp 7.5 is supplied as white, round tablets with “T545” debossed on one side. Commercial Product: Bottle of 30 tablets - 13925-142-30 Seton Pharmaceuticals does not represent these product codes to be actual National Drug Codes (NDCs). NDC format codes are product codes adjusted according to standard industry practice to meet the formatting requirements of pharmacy and health insurance computer systems. Bottle of 90 tablets - 13925-142-90 STORAGE Store at controlled room temperature 15°-30°C (59° to 86°F). [See USP]. Protect from light and moisture. Dispense in original light-resistant container. Call your doctor about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. R x Only Reserved for Professional Recommendation All prescriptions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable. This is not an Orange Book product. This product may be administered only under a physician’s supervision. There are no implied or explicit claims on therapeutic equivalence.
information_for_patients:
  PATIENT INFORMATION DuLeek™-Dp 15 is a prescription vitamin/medical food for use only under medical supervision and direction.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL: NDC 13925- 142- 30* DuLeek TM - Dp 7.5 Tablets R x Only 30 Tablets SETON PHARMACEUTICALS Container Label
indications_and_usage:
  INDICATIONS AND USAGE DuLeek™-Dp 7.5 is an orally administered prescription vitamin/medical food indicated for the supplemental requirements of patients with nutritional deficiencies or are in need of dietary supplementation.
set_id:
  b69ce02b-ffb5-4b5b-911f-5973d48ebdb2
id:
  b69ce02b-ffb5-4b5b-911f-5973d48ebdb2
