effective_time:
  20180109
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients Balsam fir canada, cetyl alcohol, citric acid, FD&C yellow #6, fragrance, hydrolyzed animal protein, hydroxyethylcellulose, isopropyl alcohol, methylparaben, polyoxyethylene 10 cetyl ether, propylene glycol, propylparaben, purified water, stearalkonium chloride
purpose:
  Purpose Lice treatment
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only Do not use on children under 2 months of age near the eyes inside the nose, ear, mouth, or vagina on lice in eyebrows or eyelashes. See your doctor. Ask a doctor before use if you are allergic to ragweed. May cause breathing difficulty or an asthmatic episode. When using this product keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel if product gets into the eyes, immediately flush with large amounts of water scalp itching or redness may occur Stop use and see a doctor if side effects occur breathing difficulty occurs eye irritation occurs skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
when_using:
  When using this product keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel if product gets into the eyes, immediately flush with large amounts of water scalp itching or redness may occur
questions:
  Questions? 1-800-432-8534 between 9 am and 4 pm EST, Monday – Friday.
spl_product_data_elements:
  Lice Treatment permethrin PERMETHRIN PERMETHRIN CANADA BALSAM CETYL ALCOHOL ANHYDROUS CITRIC ACID FD&C YELLOW NO. 6 HYDROXYETHYL CELLULOSE (2000 MPA.S AT 1%) ISOPROPYL ALCOHOL METHYLPARABEN CETETH-10 PROPYLENE GLYCOL PROPYLPARABEN WATER STEARALKONIUM CHLORIDE
ask_doctor:
  Ask a doctor before use if you are allergic to ragweed. May cause breathing difficulty or an asthmatic episode.
openfda:
version:
  3
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions Inspect all household members should be checked by another person for lice and/or nits (eggs) use a magnifying glass in bright light to help you see the lice and nits (eggs) use a tool, such as a comb or two unsharpened pencils to lift and part the hair look for tiny nits near the scalp, beginning at the back of the neck and behind the ears small sections of hair (1-2 inches wide) should be examined at a time unlike dandruff, nits stick to the hair. Dandruff should move when lightly touched. if either lice or nits (eggs) are found, treat with Permethrin Lotion 1% Treat wash hair with a shampoo without conditioner. Do not use a shampoo that contains a conditioner or a conditioner alone since this may decrease the activity of Permethrin Lotion 1%. Rinse with water. towel dry hair so it is damp but not wet shake the bottle of Permethrin Lotion 1% well completely saturate the hair and scalp with Permethrin Lotion 1%. Begin to apply Permethrin Lotion 1% behind the ears and at the back of the neck. keep Permethrin Lotion 1% out of the eyes. Protect the eyes with a washcloth or towel. leave Permethrin Lotion 1% on the hair for 10 minutes, but no longer rinse with warm water towel dry hair and comb out tangles if live lice are seen seven days or more after the first treatment, a second treatment should be given Remove Lice/Nits remove nits by combing the hair with the special small tooth comb provided. Remaining nits may be removed by hand (using a throw-away glove), or cutting the nits out. use the nit comb provided and make sure the hair remains slightly damp while removing nits if the hair dries during combing, dampen it slightly with water part the hair into 4 sections. Work on one section at a time. Longer hair may take more time (1-2 hours). start at the top of the head on the section you have picked with one hand, lift a 1-2 inch wide strand of hair. Get the teeth of the comb as close to the scalp as possible and comb with a firm, even motion away from the scalp to the end of the hair. use clips to pin back each strand of hair after you have combed out the nits clean the comb completely as you go. Wipe the nits from the comb with a tissue and throw away the tissue in a sealed plastic bag to prevent the lice from coming back. after combing, recheck the entire head for nits and repeat combing if necessary check the affected head daily to remove any nits that you might have missed
pregnancy_or_breast_feeding:
  If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use.
spl_unclassified_section:
  Drug Facts
  Other information read all the directions in the Consumer Information Insert and warnings before use. Keep the carton. It contains important information. store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F)
stop_use:
  Stop use and see a doctor if side effects occur breathing difficulty occurs eye irritation occurs skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs
do_not_use:
  Do not use on children under 2 months of age near the eyes inside the nose, ear, mouth, or vagina on lice in eyebrows or eyelashes. See your doctor.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL HEB® Compare to Nix® Active Ingredient* Lice Treatment PERMETHRIN LOTION 1% Multi-Pack Crème Rinse with 2 Nit Removal Combs Kills Lice and Eggs With a Single Application Prevents Reinfestation for 14 Days 2 BOTTLES 2 FL OZ (59 mL) EACH TOTAL 4 FL OZ (118 mL) heb lice treatment carton
indications_and_usage:
  Use treats head lice
set_id:
  fbcb7c07-4438-4b34-bf8a-180ed7af2071
id:
  eedfa492-720a-4605-a88c-87653796e93d
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient (in each fluid ounce) Permethrin 280 mg (1%)
