spl_product_data_elements:
  LidoPro Patch Lidocaine, Menthol, and Methyl Salicylate LIDOCAINE LIDOCAINE MENTHOL MENTHOL METHYL SALICYLATE SALICYLIC ACID GLYCERIN POLYACRYLIC ACID (250000 MW) POLYSORBATE 80 WATER
active_ingredient:
  Active Ingredient Lidocaine 4%
  Active Ingredient Menthol .5%
  Active Ingredient Methyl Salicylate .1%
purpose:
  Purpose Topical Anesthetic
  Purpose Topical Analgesic
  Purpose Topical Counterirritant
indications_and_usage:
  Uses Temporarily relieves minor pain
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only Do not use • more than one patch on your bidy at a time or on cuts, irritated, or swollen skin • on puncture wounds • for more than one week without consulting a doctor. When using this product Use only as directed. Read and follow directions and warning on this packaging. Do not apply to wounds or damaged, broken, or irritated skin Avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes Do not bandage tightly or apply local heat (such as heating pads) to area of use Do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics Dispose of used patch in manner that always keeps product away from children and pets. Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch. Stop use and ask a doctor if conditions worsens redness is present irritation develops symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days you experience signs of injury, such as pain, swelling, or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breast feeding, ask health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children and pets. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
do_not_use:
  Do not use • more than one patch on your bidy at a time or on cuts, irritated, or swollen skin • on puncture wounds • for more than one week without consulting a doctor.
when_using:
  When using this product Use only as directed. Read and follow directions and warning on this packaging. Do not apply to wounds or damaged, broken, or irritated skin Avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes Do not bandage tightly or apply local heat (such as heating pads) to area of use Do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics Dispose of used patch in manner that always keeps product away from children and pets. Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch.
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if conditions worsens redness is present irritation develops symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days you experience signs of injury, such as pain, swelling, or blistering where the product was applied
pregnancy_or_breast_feeding:
  If pregnant or breast feeding, ask health professional before use.
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children and pets. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
dosage_and_administration:
  DIRECTIONS ad ults and children over 12 years: clean and dry the affected area remove patch from plastic liner and place on the affected area use 1 patch for up to 12 hours place used patch on the liner when not in use re-use the patch up to 2 times. children 12 years or younger: ask a doctor
inactive_ingredient:
  OTHER INGREDIENTS: Vegan Glycerol, Polyacrylate, Aqua. Polysorbate 80
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Principal Display Panel LidoPro patch box pouch
set_id:
  10f98011-bffc-cc56-e063-6394a90a0116
id:
  583b858e-af81-8c87-e063-6294a90a37e3
effective_time:
  20260804
version:
  3
openfda:
