effective_time:
  20131007
inactive_ingredient:
  INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive Ingredients: Water, Cyclopentasiloxane, Butylene glycol, Isoamyl p-methoxycinnamate, Cetyl PEG/PPG-10/1 Dimethicone, Betaine, Cetyl ethylhexanoate, Polysorbate 60, Dimethicone, Sodium chloride, Sodium hyaluronate, PEG-40 stearate, Iron oxides, Bentonite, Talc, Stearic acide, Phenoxyethanol, Methylparaben, Ethylparaben, Butylparaben, Propylparaben, Isobutylparaben, Tocopheryl acetate, Perfume, Rubus hirsutus fruit/leaf extract, Camellia Japonica Ovary Powder, Centella asiatica extract, Lavandula angustifolia (Lavender) extract, Glycyrrhiza glabra (Licorice) root extract, Triticum vulgare (Wheat) flour lipids, Allantoin, Lysine HCL, Disodium EDTA, Proline, Sodium ascorbyl phosphate, Linum usitatissimum (Linseed) seed extract, Hibiscus esculentus fruit extract, Aloe barbadensis leaf juice, Arctium lappa root extract, Hibiscus mutabilis flower extract, Corchorus olitorius leaf extract, Dimethyl sulfone
purpose:
  PURPOSE Purpose: Sunscreen
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep out of reach of babies and children
warnings:
  WARNINGS Warnings: 1. In case of having following symptoms after using this, you’re advised to stop using it immediately. If you keep using it, the symptoms will get worse and need to consult a dermatologist. 1) In case of having problem such as red rash, swollenness, itching, stimulation during usage. 2) In case of having the same symptoms above on the part you put this product on by direct sunlight. 2. You are banned to use it on the part where you have a scar, eczema, or dermatitis. 3. In the case of getting it into your eyes, you have to wash it immediately.
spl_product_data_elements:
  Lycoris Rubus brightening BB SPF40 PA Plus Plus OCTINOXATE, Titanium dioxide, Zinc oxide OCTINOXATE OCTINOXATE Titanium dioxide TITANIUM DIOXIDE Zinc oxide ZINC CATION Water Butylene glycol
openfda:
version:
  1
dosage_and_administration:
  DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage and administration: Apply after washing face. Take a small amount of cream about 1.0-1.5g on to the fingertips and gently massage over the entire face.(cheeks, nostrils, corners, forehead, and the around of eyes, even your hands) Blot face lightly with tissue, and may sleep without washing it.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PACKAGE LABEL. PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Image of carton
indications_and_usage:
  INDICATIONS AND USAGE Indications and usage: 1. Tighten the lid after using it. 2. Don’t keep it in the place where the temperature is extremely hot or low and exposed to the direct sunlight. 3. Use it in the evening after washing face.
set_id:
  4d78a6bb-2d1f-4ca6-a6f5-37269eb3a4a2
id:
  a81dcd31-a562-47ba-89e5-f9a5cfdcf0c1
active_ingredient:
  ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredients: Ethylhexyl methoxycinnamate 7.5%, Titanium dioxide 5%, Zinc oxide 5%
