effective_time:
  20101115
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive Ingredients Cyclopentasiloxane, Dimethicone Crosspolymer, Dimethicone/Vinyl Dimethicone Crosspolymer, Dimethicone, Stearoxytrimethylsilane, C30-45 Olefin, Phenyl Methicone, Lauryl PEG/PPG-18/18 Methicone, Polymethylsilsesquioxane, Dimethiconol, Polyglyceryl-3 Polydimethylsiloxyethyl Dimethicone, Aluminum Hydroxde, Stearic Acid, Triethoxysilylethyl Polymethylsiloxyethyl Hexyl Dimethicone.
purpose:
  Uses Helps prevent sunburn Higher SPF gives more sunburn protection Retains SPF after 80 minutes of activity in the water or sweating
warnings:
  Warnings For external uses only. When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison ControlCenter right away
spl_product_data_elements:
  MDSolarSciences SPF30 Plus Mineral Screen Titanium Dioxide and Zinc Oxide TITANIUM DIOXIDE TITANIUM DIOXIDE ZINC OXIDE ZINC OXIDE POLYMETHYLSILSESQUIOXANE (4.5 MICRONS)
description:
  Additional Carton Labeling MDSolarSciences Corp 40 Richards Avenue, 3rd Floor, Norwalk, CT 06854 www.mdsolarsciences.com Patent Pending UPC 8 55488 00201 1 MINERAL SCREEN GEL Safe, Effective & Elegant Suncreen For Sensitive Skin Zinc & Titanium based Free of chemical actives Broad Spectrum Protection UVB ("Burning" rays) SPF 30 Plus UVA ("Aging" rays) Formulated to meet European standards Elegant Cosmesis Silky smooth Clear when rubbed in well Also Available from MDSolarSciences: No Touch Body Spray SPF 40 Ulta-Sport Stick SPF40 Mineral Screen Lotion SPF40 Ulta Mineral Screen Gel SPF50 Plus A complete sun protection routine can help to reduce photo-aging and the incidence of skin cancer The use of broad spectum (UVA and UVB) sunscreens is only one element of safer sun practices. It is also important to take the following sun-safety measures: SUN SAFE TIPS: Wear Protective Clothing A long sleeved shirt, pants, a wide-brimmed hat and sunglasses should be worn where possible Seek Shade Remember that the sun's rays are strongest between 10am and 4pm. Learn the UV Index and be aware of the strength of the sun's rays. Avoid Tanning Beds UV light from the sun and tanning beds may cause skin cancer and wrinkling Get Vitamin D Safely Add vitamin supplements to a healthy diet in consultation with your physician.
openfda:
version:
  2
general_precautions:
  Other Information Sun alert: Limiting sun exposure, wearing protective clothing, and using sunscreen may reduce the risk of skin aging, skin cancer, and other harmful effects of the sun. May stain clothing. You may report serious adverse reactions to Report Reactions, LLC, PO Box 22, Plainsboro, NJ 08536-0222
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Principle Display Panel MDSolarSciences SPF 30 Plus with Broad Spectrum UVA-UVB Sunscreen Mineral Screen Gel Sensitive Skin Formula Silky Smooth Application Very Water Resistant Non-Comedogenic (won't clog pores) Non-greasy. No Fragrance Suited for Acne/Rosacea Prone Skin For Adults and Children 50g - 1.76 Oz image of SPF30 Plus Gel PDP image of SPF30 Plus Gel Container
indications_and_usage:
  Directions Apply liberally and uniformly to all exposed areas 15-20 minutes before sun exposure. Rub in well. Reapply often (every 2 hours) and after swimming, excessive perspiration and washing. Children under 6 months of age ask a doctor. Effective sun protection for children under 2 years of age is strongly recommended.
set_id:
  44d35e07-edfd-41ad-adc3-d3a2d1ae2bd8
id:
  e0762b81-4af2-4c37-9bb6-76a1b0b21a3f
active_ingredient:
  Active Igredients Titanium Dioxide 7.7% .......... Sunscreen Zinc Oxide 3.8% ................ Sunscreen image of SPF30 Gel Carton
