effective_time:
  20160321
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients butane, butylated hydroxytoluene, cetyl alcohol, citric acid, glycerin, isobutane, lactic acid, polysorbate 60, propane, purified water, SD alcohol 40-B, stearyl alcohol
purpose:
  Purpose Hair regrowth treatment for men
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children . If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only. For use by men only. Extremely Flammable: Avoid fire, flame, or smoking during and immediately following application. Do not use if you are a woman your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on side of this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp. 5% minoxidil topical foam is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline. you have no family history of hair loss your hair loss is sudden and/or patchy you do not know the reason for your hair loss you are under 18 years of age. Do not use on babies and children. your scalp is red, inflamed, infected, irritated, or painful you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product do not apply on other parts of the body avoid contact with the eyes. In case of accidental contact, rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water. some people have experienced changes in hair color and/or texture it takes time to regrow hair. Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage. For some men, you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results. the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person. This product will not work for all men. Stop use and ask a doctor if chest pain, rapid heartbeat, faintness, or dizziness occurs sudden, unexplained weight gain occurs your hands or feet swell scalp irritation or redness occurs unwanted facial hair growth occurs you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast-feeding. Keep out of reach of children . If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
when_using:
  When using this product do not apply on other parts of the body avoid contact with the eyes. In case of accidental contact, rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water. some people have experienced changes in hair color and/or texture it takes time to regrow hair. Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage. For some men, you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results. the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person. This product will not work for all men.
questions:
  Questions? call toll-free 800-ROGAINE or 215-273-8755 (collect) visit www. rogaine.com
spl_product_data_elements:
  Mens rogaine Unscented Formula Minoxidil Minoxidil Minoxidil Butane Butylated Hydroxytoluene Cetyl Alcohol Citric Acid Monohydrate Glycerin Isobutane Lactic Acid, Unspecified Form Polysorbate 60 Propane Water Stearyl Alcohol
ask_doctor:
  Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease
openfda:
version:
  4
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions apply half a capful 2 times a day to the scalp in the hair loss area massage into scalp with fingers, then wash hands well see enclosed booklet for complete directions on how to use using more or more often will not improve results continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth or hair loss will begin again
pregnancy_or_breast_feeding:
  May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast-feeding.
spl_unclassified_section:
  Drug Facts
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if chest pain, rapid heartbeat, faintness, or dizziness occurs sudden, unexplained weight gain occurs your hands or feet swell scalp irritation or redness occurs unwanted facial hair growth occurs you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months
storage_and_handling:
  Other information hair growth has been shown in a clinical study of men (mostly white) aged 18-49 years who used it for 4 months see hair loss pictures on right before use, read all information on package and enclosed booklet keep the package. It contains important information. store at controlled room temperature 20° to 25° C (68° to 77° F) contents under pressure. Do not puncture or incinerate container. Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120° F (49° C).
do_not_use:
  Do not use if you are a woman your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on side of this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp. 5% minoxidil topical foam is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline. you have no family history of hair loss your hair loss is sudden and/or patchy you do not know the reason for your hair loss you are under 18 years of age. Do not use on babies and children. your scalp is red, inflamed, infected, irritated, or painful you use other medicines on the scalp
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 g Can Carton #1 DERMATOLOGIST RECOMMENDED BRAND MEN'S Rogaine ® 5% MINOXIDIL TOPICAL AEROSOL HAIR REGROWTH TREATMENT REVITALIZES HAIR FOLLICLES EASY-TO-USE FOAM CLINICALLY PROVEN TO HELP REGROW HAIR UNSCENTED Not For Use By Women Three Month Supply ∙ Three 60 g (2.11 oz) Cans PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANE - 60 g Can Carton
indications_and_usage:
  Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp (vertex only, see pictures on side of this carton)
set_id:
  88f17a5a-a8e3-488a-8a96-8bd6f150c043
id:
  90721b2b-d7bd-496d-a012-cd4a59ae537d
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Minoxidil 5% w/w (without propellant)
