spl_product_data_elements:
  Minoxidil Minoxidil MINOXIDIL MINOXIDIL ALCOHOL PROPYLENE GLYCOL WATER
spl_unclassified_section:
  Drug Facts
  Distributed by: H2-Pharma, LLC Montgomery, AL 36117
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Minoxidil, USP 2% w/v
purpose:
  Purpose Hair regrowth treatment
indications_and_usage:
  Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp (vertex only, see pictures on side of carton)
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only Flammable: Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if your degree of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton, because this product may not work for you you have no family history of hair loss your hair loss is sudden and/or patchy you do not know the reason for your hair loss you are under 18 years of age. Do not use on babies and children. your scalp is red, inflamed, infected, irritated, or painful you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease. When using this product do not apply on other parts of the body avoid contact with the eyes. In case of accidental contact, rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water. some people have experienced changes in hair color and/or texture it takes time to regrow hair. You may need to use this product 2 times a day for at least 4 months before you see results. the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person. This product will not work for everyone. Stop use and ask a doctor if chest pain, rapid heartbeat, faintness, or dizziness occurs sudden, unexplained weight gain occurs your hands or feet swell scalp irritation or redness occurs unwanted facial hair growth occurs you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast-feeding. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away.
do_not_use:
  Do not use if your degree of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton, because this product may not work for you you have no family history of hair loss your hair loss is sudden and/or patchy you do not know the reason for your hair loss you are under 18 years of age. Do not use on babies and children. your scalp is red, inflamed, infected, irritated, or painful you use other medicines on the scalp
ask_doctor:
  Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease.
when_using:
  When using this product do not apply on other parts of the body avoid contact with the eyes. In case of accidental contact, rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water. some people have experienced changes in hair color and/or texture it takes time to regrow hair. You may need to use this product 2 times a day for at least 4 months before you see results. the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person. This product will not work for everyone.
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if chest pain, rapid heartbeat, faintness, or dizziness occurs sudden, unexplained weight gain occurs your hands or feet swell scalp irritation or redness occurs unwanted facial hair growth occurs you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months
pregnancy_or_breast_feeding:
  May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast-feeding.
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away.
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions apply one mL with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area using more or more often will not improve results continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth, or hair loss will begin again
storage_and_handling:
  Other information see hair loss pictures on side of this carton before use, read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet keep the carton. It contains important information. in clinical studies of mostly white men aged 18 to 49 years with moderate degrees of hair loss, the following response to minoxidil topical solution 2% for men was reported: 26% of men reported moderate to dense hair regrowth after using minoxidil topical solution 2% for men for 4 months (26% had moderate to dense regrowth; 33% had minimal regrowth). This compares with 11% of men reporting hair regrowth after using the placebo, the liquid without minoxidil in it, for 4 months (11% had moderate to dense regrowth; 31% had minimal regrowth). store at controlled room temperature 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F)
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients alcohol (60% v/v), propylene glycol, purified water
questions:
  Questions? Call 1-877-753-3935 Monday-Friday 9AM-5PM EST
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 mL Bottle Carton NDC 61269-066-75 *Compare to the active ingredient in Men's Rogaine® FOR MEN Minoxidil Topical Solution, USP 2% Hair regrowth treatment Reactivates hair follicles to stimulate regrowth Clinically proven to help regrow hair Unscented FOR BEST RESULTS Apply directly to scalp twice daily TWO MONTH SUPPLY Two 60 mL (2 fl oz) bottles H 2 pharma PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 mL Bottle Carton
set_id:
  288677b3-8ede-403a-8fc7-d9d788d985af
id:
  7b74333f-0941-4353-b4e1-3113d9adb197
effective_time:
  20241230
version:
  2
openfda:
