spl_product_data_elements:
  Minoxidil Extra Strength for Men Minoxidil MINOXIDIL MINOXIDIL ALCOHOL PROPYLENE GLYCOL WATER
spl_unclassified_section:
  Drug Facts
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Minoxidil, USP 5% w/v
purpose:
  Purpose Hair regrowth treatment for men
indications_and_usage:
  Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp (vertex only, see pictures on side of carton)
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only. For use by men only. Flammable: Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if you are a woman your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp. Minoxidil topical solution 5% is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline. you have no family history of hair loss your hair loss is sudden and/or patchy you do not know the reason for your hair loss you are under 18 years of age. Do not use on babies and children. your scalp is red, inflamed, infected, irritated, or painful you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product do not apply on other parts of the body avoid contact with the eyes. In case of accidental contact, rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water. some people have experienced changes in hair color and/or texture it takes time to regrow hair. Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage. For some men, you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results. the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person. This product will not work for all men. Stop use and ask a doctor if chest pain, rapid heartbeat, faintness, or dizziness occurs sudden, unexplained weight gain occurs your hands or feet swell scalp irritation or redness occurs unwanted facial hair growth occurs you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast-feeding. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
do_not_use:
  Do not use if you are a woman your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp. Minoxidil topical solution 5% is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline. you have no family history of hair loss your hair loss is sudden and/or patchy you do not know the reason for your hair loss you are under 18 years of age. Do not use on babies and children. your scalp is red, inflamed, infected, irritated, or painful you use other medicines on the scalp
ask_doctor:
  Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease
when_using:
  When using this product do not apply on other parts of the body avoid contact with the eyes. In case of accidental contact, rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water. some people have experienced changes in hair color and/or texture it takes time to regrow hair. Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage. For some men, you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results. the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person. This product will not work for all men.
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if chest pain, rapid heartbeat, faintness, or dizziness occurs sudden, unexplained weight gain occurs your hands or feet swell scalp irritation or redness occurs unwanted facial hair growth occurs you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months
pregnancy_or_breast_feeding:
  May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast-feeding.
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions apply one mL with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area using more or more often will not improve results continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth, or hair loss will begin again
other_safety_information:
  Other information see hair loss pictures on side of this carton before use, read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet keep the carton. It contains important information. hair regrowth has not been shown to last longer than 48 weeks in large clinical trials with continuous treatment with minoxidil topical solution 5% for men In clinical studies with mostly white men aged 18 to 49 years with moderate degrees of hair loss, minoxidil topical solution 5% for men provided more hair regrowth than minoxidil topical solution 2% store at controlled room temperature 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F)
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients alcohol (30% v/v), propylene glycol (50% v/v), purified water
questions:
  Questions? 1-800-432-8534 between 9 am and 4 pm EST, Monday–Friday.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Principal Display Panel Premier Value ® COMPARE TO THE ACTIVE INGREDIENT IN MEN'S ROGAINE ® EXTRA STRENGTH * Extra Strength For Men Minoxidil TOPICAL SOLUTION, USP 5% HAIR REGROWTH TREATMENT Reactivates Hair Follicles to Stimulate Regrowth Clinically Proven to Help Regrow Hair Unscented NOT FOR USE BY WOMEN FOR BEST RESULTS APPLY DIRECTLY TO SCALP TWICE DAILY Two Month Supply Two 60mL (2 fl oz) Bottles INDEPENDENTLY TESTED SATISFACTION GUARANTEED image image
set_id:
  a21f6ec6-683c-4e53-8fe3-3779e828904f
id:
  c58b2a16-521c-4df2-b770-6a7409b1f6ff
effective_time:
  20250127
version:
  8
openfda:
