spl_product_data_elements:
  Nanz Povidone Iodine 10% Solution Povidone Iodine 10% Solution CITRIC ACID MONOHYDRATE POVIDONE-IODINE IODINE POTASSIUM IODATE SODIUM PHOSPHATE, DIBASIC, ANHYDROUS GLYCERIN POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL 1500 NONOXYNOL-9 WATER
purpose:
  Purpose: Topical Antifungal
active_ingredient:
  Active Ingredients 10% Povidone Iodine Solution USP, (1% available Iodine)
indications_and_usage:
  Uses: For the treatment of athlete's foot, jock itch, and ringworm For the effective relief of burning, cracking, discomfort, redness, scaling, soreness, and chafing that is associated with jock itch.
warnings:
  Warnings: Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor. For external use only. Avoid contact with the eyes. If irritation occurs or of there is no improvement within 4 weeks, discontinue use and consult a doctor. If irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 2 weeks, discontinue use and consult a doctor.
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help immediately or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients: Anydrous dibasic sodium phosphate, Citric acid monohydrate, Glycerin, Polyethylene glycol 1500, Nonoxynol-3, Potassium iodate, Water
other_safety_information:
  Questions? Nanz Pharma 575 Granite Ct. Pickering, ON L1W 3K1
dosage_and_administration:
  Use as directed.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Directions: Apply a thin layer of the product over the affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a doctor. Supervise children in the use of this product. For athlete's foot: Pay special attention to spaces between the toes; wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily. For athlete's foot and ringworm, use daily for 4 weeks; for jock itch, use daily for 2 weeks. If the condition persists longer, consult a doctor. This product is not effective on the scalp or nails. To prevent athlete's foot, wash the feet and dry thoroughly. Apply a thin layer of the product to the feet once or twice daily (morning and/or night). Supervise children in the use of this product. Pay special attention to spaces between the toes; wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily.
  Storage: Store in dry and dark place at temperature not exceeding 30C
  Note: Change non-active ingredient from nonoxynol-3 to nonoxynol-9 Label for all povidone iodine 10 percent Label for all povidone iodine 10 percent
set_id:
  f1eb8be1-f4dd-5c0a-e053-2995a90ab6bc
id:
  1a4f8609-7061-3995-e063-6394a90a858a
effective_time:
  20240607
version:
  11
openfda:
