effective_time:
  20190130
contraindications:
  Contraindications Hypersensitivity to fluoride
spl_product_data_elements:
  NeutraGard Gel Mint Topical Neutral fluoride gel SODIUM FLUORIDE FLUORIDE ION WATER
warnings_and_cautions:
  Warnings & Precautions Do not swallow. Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children. For use only under supervision of a dental professional or physician. Adverse Reactions: Developing teeth of children under 6 years of age may become permanently discolored if excess quantities are repeatedly swallowed. Reactions of individuals whith fluoride hypersensitivity amy include: eczema, atopic dermatitis, uticaria, gastric distress, headache, and weakness. Overdose: If you accidentally swallow more than used for brushing, administer calcium (e.g. milk) and seek professional medical assistance or contact local Poison Control Center immediately. For product SDS information, please see company website at pascaldental.com or contact Pascal directly. Neutragard Gel is free of gluten, milk, soy, egg, peanut and tree nut products. Store product between 59-86ºF (15-30ºC)
openfda:
version:
  1
dosage_forms_and_strengths:
  Dosage RX Only in USA Before dispensing remove cap and peel off seal Contains: 1.1% w/w Sodium fluoride (provides 5000ppm fluoride) Usual treatment does contains 1-3 mg fluoride. A 2.0oz tube contains 300 mg of fluoride
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  NeutraGard Gel 1.1% Neutral Sodium Fluoride Gel Mint pH7 5000 Preventive Treatment Gel for Home Use Mint Flavor REF 11-715 NeutraGard Gel Mint Tube
indications_and_usage:
  Indications & Usage Indications and Usage Aids in the prevention of dental cavities. This is an anti-cavity (preventive treatment gel, not a toothpaste. Read directions carefully before using. Clinical studies have shown that 1.1% sodium fluoride is safe and effective as an anti-cavity agent when used topically. This product should be applied with a toothbrush after brushing with a dentifrice toothpaste. It can be used in areas where drinking water is fluoridated since topical fluorides do not produce fluorosis when used as directed. Adults and children 6 years of age and older: Use once daily after brushing with a dentifrice toothpaste. Apply a thin ribbon of gel to toothbrush and brush teeth thoroughly. Allow the gel to reamin on your teeth for 1 minute and then spit out. Do not swallow gel. For best effectiveness, do not eat or drink for 30 minutes after brushing. Supervise children less than 12 years of age as necessary when using this product to minimize swallowing. Children under 6 years of age - consult a dentist or physician.
set_id:
  80b3502e-1bce-1704-e053-2991aa0aaa5b
id:
  80b3502e-1bcf-1704-e053-2991aa0aaa5b
