spl_product_data_elements:
  Nystatin Nystatin NYSTATIN NYSTATIN PETROLATUM ALUMINUM HYDROXIDE TITANIUM DIOXIDE CETEARETH-15 PROPYLENE GLYCOL PROPYLPARABEN POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL 400 GLYCERYL MONOSTEARATE METHYLPARABEN SORBITOL Yellow to light green
description:
  DESCRIPTION Nystatin is a polyene antifungal antibiotic obtained from Streptomyces nursei . Nystatin cream is for dermatologic use. Nystatin cream for topical use, contains 100,000 USP Nystatin Units in an aqueous cream base containing aluminium hydroxide, ceteareth-15, polyethylene glycol monostearate, glycerol monostearate, propylene glycol, purified water, simethicone emulsion, non-crystallizing sorbitol solution, titanium dioxide, white petrolatum with methyl paraben and propyl paraben as preservatives. 555
clinical_pharmacology:
  CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Nystatin is not absorbed from intact skin or mucous membrane. Microbiology Nystatin is an antibiotic which is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast-like fungi, including Candida albicans, C. parapsilosis, C. tropicalis, C. guilliermondi, C. pseudotropicalis, C. krusei, Torulopsis glabrata, Tricophyton rubrum, T. mentagrophytes . Nystatin acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of susceptible species resulting in a change in membrane permeability and the subsequent leakage of intracellular components. On repeated subculturing with increasing levels of nystatin, Candida albicans does not develop resistance to nystatin. Generally, resistance to nystatin does not develop during therapy. However, other species of Candida (C. tropicalis, C. guilliermondi, C. krusei, and C. stellatoides ) become quite resistant on treatment with Nystatin and simultaneously become cross resistant to amphotericin as well. This resistance is lost when the antibiotic is removed. Nystatin exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria, protozoa, or viruses.
indications_and_usage:
  INDICATIONS & USAGE Nystatin cream is indicated in the treatment of cutaneous or mucocutaneous mycotic infections caused by Candida albicans and other susceptible Candida species. This cream is not indicated for systemic, oral, intravaginal or ophthalmic use.
contraindications:
  CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin cream is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components.
precautions:
  PRECAUTIONS GENERAL PRECAUTIONS Nystatin cream should not be used for the treatment of systemic, oral, intravaginal or ophthalmic infections. If irritation or sensitization develops, treatment should be discontinued and appropriate measures taken as indicated. It is recommended that KOH smears, cultures, or other diagnostic methods be used to confirm the diagnosis of cutaneous or mucocutaneous candidiasis and to rule out infection caused by other pathogens. INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Patients using this medication should receive the following information and instructions: The patient should be instructed to use this medication as directed (including the replacement of missed doses). This medication is not for any disorder other than that for which it is prescribed. Even if symptomatic relief occurs within the first few days of treatment, the patient should be advised not to interrupt or discontinue therapy until the prescribed course of treatment is completed. If symptoms of irritation develop, the patient should be advised to notify the physician promptly. LABORATORY TESTS If there is a lack of therapeutic response, KOH smears, cultures, or other diagnostic methods should be repeated. CARCINOGENESIS & MUTAGENESIS & IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY No long-term animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of nystatin. No studies have been performed to determine the mutagenicity of nystatin or the effects on male or female fertility. PREGNANCY Teratogenic Effects Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with any nystatin cream. It also is not known whether this cream can cause fetal harm when used by a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity. Nystatin cream should be prescribed for a pregnant woman only if the potential benefit to the mother outweighs the potential risk to the fetus. NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether nystatin is excreted in human milk. Caution should be exercised when nystatin is prescribed for a nursing woman. PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness have been established in the pediatric population from birth to 16 years. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) GERIATRIC USE Clinical studies with nystatin cream did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects. Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out.
general_precautions:
  GENERAL PRECAUTIONS Nystatin cream should not be used for the treatment of systemic, oral, intravaginal or ophthalmic infections. If irritation or sensitization develops, treatment should be discontinued and appropriate measures taken as indicated. It is recommended that KOH smears, cultures, or other diagnostic methods be used to confirm the diagnosis of cutaneous or mucocutaneous candidiasis and to rule out infection caused by other pathogens.
information_for_patients:
  INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Patients using this medication should receive the following information and instructions: The patient should be instructed to use this medication as directed (including the replacement of missed doses). This medication is not for any disorder other than that for which it is prescribed. Even if symptomatic relief occurs within the first few days of treatment, the patient should be advised not to interrupt or discontinue therapy until the prescribed course of treatment is completed. If symptoms of irritation develop, the patient should be advised to notify the physician promptly.
laboratory_tests:
  LABORATORY TESTS If there is a lack of therapeutic response, KOH smears, cultures, or other diagnostic methods should be repeated.
carcinogenesis_and_mutagenesis_and_impairment_of_fertility:
  CARCINOGENESIS & MUTAGENESIS & IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY No long-term animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of nystatin. No studies have been performed to determine the mutagenicity of nystatin or the effects on male or female fertility.
pregnancy:
  PREGNANCY Teratogenic Effects Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with any nystatin cream. It also is not known whether this cream can cause fetal harm when used by a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity. Nystatin cream should be prescribed for a pregnant woman only if the potential benefit to the mother outweighs the potential risk to the fetus.
nursing_mothers:
  NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether nystatin is excreted in human milk. Caution should be exercised when nystatin is prescribed for a nursing woman.
pediatric_use:
  PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness have been established in the pediatric population from birth to 16 years. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .)
geriatric_use:
  GERIATRIC USE Clinical studies with nystatin cream did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects. Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out.
adverse_reactions:
  ADVERSE REACTIONS The frequency of adverse events reported in patients using nystatin cream is less than 0.1%. The more common events that were reported include allergic reactions, burning, itching, rash, eczema, and pain on application. (See PRECAUTIONS: General.)
dosage_and_administration:
  DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Adults and Pediatric Patients (Neonates and Older) Apply liberally to affected areas twice daily or as indicated until healing is complete.
how_supplied:
  HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin Cream USP is a yellow to light green cream. It is supplied as: 15 gram Tube NDC 33342-469-15 30 gram Tube NDC 33342-469-30 Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F); excursions permitted between 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Avoid freezing. Manufactured for: Macleods Pharma USA, Inc. Princeton, NJ 08540 Manufacturer: Macleods Pharmaceuticals Limited At Oxalis Labs Baddi, Himachal Pradesh, INDIA Rev. 08/2021
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PACKAGE LABEL.PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Nystatin Cream USP, 100000 units per gram Pack Count: 15 gms Tube NDC: 33342-469-15 Nystatin Cream USP, 100000 units/gram Pack Count: 15 gms carton NDC: 33342-469-15 Nystatin Cream USP, 100000 units per gram Pack Count: 30 gms Tube NDC: 33342-469-30 Nystatin Cream USP, 100000 units/gram Pack Count: 30 gms carton NDC: 33342-469-30 1 2 3 4
set_id:
  d8ebb61a-a326-4f0d-a346-c3db045c3fb0
id:
  d8ebb61a-a326-4f0d-a346-c3db045c3fb0
effective_time:
  20210825
version:
  1
openfda:
  application_number:
    ANDA213566
  brand_name:
    Nystatin
  generic_name:
    NYSTATIN
  manufacturer_name:
    Macleods Pharmaceuticals Limited
  product_ndc:
    33342-469
  product_type:
    HUMAN PRESCRIPTION DRUG
  route:
    TOPICAL
  substance_name:
    NYSTATIN
  rxcui:
    543546
  spl_id:
    d8ebb61a-a326-4f0d-a346-c3db045c3fb0
  spl_set_id:
    d8ebb61a-a326-4f0d-a346-c3db045c3fb0
  package_ndc:
    33342-469-15
    33342-469-30
  is_original_packager:
    True
  nui:
    N0000175498
    M0017172
  pharm_class_epc:
    Polyene Antifungal [EPC]
  pharm_class_cs:
    Polyenes [CS]
  unii:
    BDF1O1C72E
