pediatric_use:
  Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established.
effective_time:
  20110125
contraindications:
  CONTRAINDICATIONS This preparation is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components.
precautions:
  PRECAUTIONS General Discontinue treatment if sensitization or irritation is reported during use. Information for Patients The patient should be informed of symptoms of sensitization or irritation and told to report them promptly. The patient should be warned against interruption or discontinuation of medication even during menstruation and even though symptomatic relief may occur within a few days. The patient should be advised that adjunctive measures such as therapeutic douches are unnecessary and sometimes inadvisable, but cleansing douches may be used by nonpregnant women, if desired, for esthetic purposes. Laboratory Tests If there is a lack of response to Nystatin Vaginal Inserts, USP, appropriate microbiological studies should be repeated to confirm the diagnosis and rule out other pathogens before instituting another course of antimycotic therapy (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ). Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Long-term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential, mutagenesis, or whether this medication affects fertility in females. Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects: Pregnancy Category A There have been no reports that use of Nystatin Vaginal Inserts by pregnant women increases the risk of fetal abnormalities or affects later growth, development and functional maturation of the child. Nevertheless, because the possibility of harm cannot be ruled out, Nystatin Vaginal Inserts should be used during pregnancy only if the physician considers it essential to the welfare of the patient. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Nystatin Vaginal Inserts. Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established.
pregnancy:
  Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects: Pregnancy Category A There have been no reports that use of Nystatin Vaginal Inserts by pregnant women increases the risk of fetal abnormalities or affects later growth, development and functional maturation of the child. Nevertheless, because the possibility of harm cannot be ruled out, Nystatin Vaginal Inserts should be used during pregnancy only if the physician considers it essential to the welfare of the patient. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Nystatin Vaginal Inserts.
spl_product_data_elements:
  Nystatin nystatin NYSTATIN NYSTATIN STARCH, CORN ETHYLCELLULOSES ANHYDROUS LACTOSE CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL STEARIC ACID
description:
  DESCRIPTION Nystatin is an antimycotic polyene antibiotic obtained from Streptomyces noursei . Nystatin Vaginal Inserts, USP are available as oval-shaped compressed inserts for intravaginal administration, each containing 100,000 units Nystatin, USP. Inactive ingredients include corn starch, ethylcellulose, anhydrous lactose, microcrystalline cellulose, polyethylene glycol and stearic acid.
openfda:
version:
  1
dosage_and_administration:
  DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dosage is one insert (100,000 units nystatin) daily for two weeks. The inserts should be deposited high in the vagina by means of the applicator. “Instructions for the Patient” are enclosed in each package.
adverse_reactions:
  ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is virtually nontoxic and nonsensitizing and is well tolerated by all age groups, even on prolonged administration. Rarely, irritation or sensitization may occur (see PRECAUTIONS ).
general_precautions:
  General Discontinue treatment if sensitization or irritation is reported during use.
laboratory_tests:
  Laboratory Tests If there is a lack of response to Nystatin Vaginal Inserts, USP, appropriate microbiological studies should be repeated to confirm the diagnosis and rule out other pathogens before instituting another course of antimycotic therapy (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ).
how_supplied:
  HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin Vaginal Inserts, USP: Pale yellow mottled oval-shaped, flat face, beveled insert (Debossed ODYSSEY on one side and 705 on the other) are available in packages of 15 individually foil wrapped inserts, with applicator and “Instructions for the Patient” - NDC 54868-1459-1 Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. DURAMED PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. Subsidiary of Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. B08-0705 Pomona, New York 10970 R8-07 (V.2) 15001177
information_for_patients:
  Information for Patients The patient should be informed of symptoms of sensitization or irritation and told to report them promptly. The patient should be warned against interruption or discontinuation of medication even during menstruation and even though symptomatic relief may occur within a few days. The patient should be advised that adjunctive measures such as therapeutic douches are unnecessary and sometimes inadvisable, but cleansing douches may be used by nonpregnant women, if desired, for esthetic purposes.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Nystatin Vaginal Inserts, USP 100,000 Units Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. REFRIGEATION NOT REQUIRED. Inactive ingredients: Corn starch, ethylcellulose, anhydrous lactose, microcrystalline cellulose, polyethylene glycol, stearic acid 15 Vaginal Inserts with Applicator image of No Label Available
indications_and_usage:
  INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin Vaginal Inserts, USP are effective for the local treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis (moniliasis). The diagnosis should be confirmed, prior to therapy, by KOH smears and/or cultures. Other pathogens commonly associated with vulvovaginitis (Trichomonas and Haemophilus vaginalis ) do not respond to nystatin and should be ruled out by appropriate laboratory methods.
clinical_pharmacology:
  CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Nystatin is both fungi-static and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast-like fungi. Nystatin acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of sensitive fungi with a resultant change in membrane permeability allowing leakage of intracellular components. Nystatin exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria, protozoa, trichomonads or viruses. Nystatin is not absorbed from intact skin or mucous membranes.
set_id:
  0dcc2619-2215-45f8-930a-e0a2982901e5
carcinogenesis_and_mutagenesis_and_impairment_of_fertility:
  Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Long-term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential, mutagenesis, or whether this medication affects fertility in females.
id:
  cce5707b-dd43-4089-985a-4014a22e3b6b
teratogenic_effects:
  Teratogenic Effects: Pregnancy Category A There have been no reports that use of Nystatin Vaginal Inserts by pregnant women increases the risk of fetal abnormalities or affects later growth, development and functional maturation of the child. Nevertheless, because the possibility of harm cannot be ruled out, Nystatin Vaginal Inserts should be used during pregnancy only if the physician considers it essential to the welfare of the patient. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Nystatin Vaginal Inserts.
