spl_product_data_elements:
  Nystatin Nystatin NYSTATIN NYSTATIN MINERAL OIL PETROLATUM YELLOW Nystatin Ointment, USP
description:
  DESCRIPTION Nystatin is a polyene antifungal antibiotic drug obtained from Streptomyces nursei. Structural formula: Nystatin Ointment is for dermatologic use. Nystatin Ointment USP, for topical use only, contains 100,000 USP Nystatin Units per gram, in a white petrolatum and light mineral oil base.
clinical_pharmacology:
  CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Nystatin is not absorbed from intact skin or mucous membrane. Microbiology Nystatin is an antibiotic which is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast-like fungi, including Candida albicans, C.parapsilosis, C.tropicalis, C.guilliermondi, C. pseudotropicalis, C. krusei, Torulopsis glabrata, Tricophyton rubrum, T. mentagrophytes . Nystatin acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of susceptible species resulting in a change in membrane permeability and the subsequent leakage of intracellular components. On repeated subculturing with increasing concentrations of nystatin, Candida albicans does not develop resistance to nystatin. Generally, resistance to nystatin does not develop during therapy. However, other species of Candida ( C. tropicalis, C. guilliermondi, C. krusei, and C. stellatoides ) become quite resistant on treatment with nystatin and simultaneously become cross resistant to amphotericin as well. This resistance is lost when the antibiotic is removed. Nystatin exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria, protozoa, or viruses.
pharmacokinetics:
  Pharmacokinetics Nystatin is not absorbed from intact skin or mucous membrane.
microbiology:
  Microbiology Nystatin is an antibiotic which is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast-like fungi, including Candida albicans, C.parapsilosis, C.tropicalis, C.guilliermondi, C. pseudotropicalis, C. krusei, Torulopsis glabrata, Tricophyton rubrum, T. mentagrophytes . Nystatin acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of susceptible species resulting in a change in membrane permeability and the subsequent leakage of intracellular components. On repeated subculturing with increasing concentrations of nystatin, Candida albicans does not develop resistance to nystatin. Generally, resistance to nystatin does not develop during therapy. However, other species of Candida ( C. tropicalis, C. guilliermondi, C. krusei, and C. stellatoides ) become quite resistant on treatment with nystatin and simultaneously become cross resistant to amphotericin as well. This resistance is lost when the antibiotic is removed. Nystatin exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria, protozoa, or viruses.
indications_and_usage:
  INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin Ointment is indicated in the treatment of cutaneous or mucocutaneous mycotic infections caused by Candida albicans and other susceptible Candida species. Nystatin Ointment is not indicated for systemic, oral, intravaginal or ophthalmic use.
contraindications:
  CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin Ointment is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of their components.
precautions:
  PRECAUTIONS General Nystatin Ointment should not be used for the treatment of systemic, oral, intravaginal or ophthalmic infections. If irritation or sensitization develops, treatment should be discontinued and appropriate measures taken as indicated. It is recommended that KOH smears, cultures, or other diagnostic methods be used to confirm the diagnosis of cutaneous or mucocutaneous candidiasis and to rule out infection caused by other pathogens.
information_for_patients:
  INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Patients using these medications should receive the following information and instructions: The patient should be instructed to use these medications as directed (including the replacement of missed doses). These medications are not for any disorder other than that for which they are prescribed. Even if symptomatic relief occurs within the first few days of treatment, the patient should be advised not to interrupt or discontinue therapy until the prescribed course of treatment is completed. If symptoms of irritation develop, the patient should be advised to notify the physician promptly Laboratory Tests If there is a lack of therapeutic response, KOH smears, cultures, or other diagnostic methods should be repeated. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility No long-term animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of nystatin. No studies have been performed to determine the mutagenicity of nystatin or its effects on male or female fertility. Pregnancy: Teratogenic Effects Category C. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with any nystatin topical preparation. It also is not known whether these preparations can cause fetal harm when used by a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity. Nystatin topical preparations should be prescribed for a pregnant woman only if the potential benefit to the mother outweighs the potential risk to the fetus. Nursing Mothers It is not known whether nystatin is excreted in human milk. Caution should be exercised when nystatin is prescribed for a nursing woman. Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have been established in the pediatric population from birth to 16 years. See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION
laboratory_tests:
  Laboratory Tests If there is a lack of therapeutic response, KOH smears, cultures, or other diagnostic methods should be repeated.
nursing_mothers:
  Nursing Mothers It is not known whether nystatin is excreted in human milk. Caution should be exercised when nystatin is prescribed for a nursing woman.
pediatric_use:
  Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have been established in the pediatric population from birth to 16 years. See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION
adverse_reactions:
  ADVERSE REACTIONS The frequency of adverse events reported in patients using Nystatin Ointment preparations is less than 0.1%. The more common events that were reported include allergic reactions, burning, itching, rash, eczema, and pain on application. (See PRECAUTIONS: General . )
dosage_and_administration:
  DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION NYSTATIN Ointment Adults and Pediatric Patients (Neonates and Older): Apply liberally to affected areas twice daily or as indicated until healing is complete.
how_supplied:
  HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin ointment (100,000 USP Nystatin Units per gram) is a yellow colored ointment is supplied in 30g tubes. NDC: 63629-2515-1: in tube of 30 gm
storage_and_handling:
  STORAGE NYSTATIN Ointment: Store at room temperature. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to Viona Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-888-304-5011 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088.
spl_unclassified_section:
  Manufactured by: Cadila Healthcare Limited Changodar, Ahmedabad, India. Distributed by: Viona Pharmaceuticals Inc. Cranford, NJ 07016 Rev.: 11/19
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Nystatin 100,000u/g Oint, USP #30 Label
set_id:
  84383bc5-1282-43d6-9303-23c8fd8d075f
id:
  93338b75-a637-411f-ba9a-fc9fe6dbf913
effective_time:
  20230303
version:
  102
openfda:
  application_number:
    ANDA207767
  brand_name:
    Nystatin
  generic_name:
    NYSTATIN
  manufacturer_name:
    Bryant Ranch Prepack
  product_ndc:
    63629-2515
  product_type:
    HUMAN PRESCRIPTION DRUG
  route:
    TOPICAL
  substance_name:
    NYSTATIN
  rxcui:
    884308
  spl_id:
    93338b75-a637-411f-ba9a-fc9fe6dbf913
  spl_set_id:
    84383bc5-1282-43d6-9303-23c8fd8d075f
  package_ndc:
    63629-2515-1
  original_packager_product_ndc:
    72578-089
  nui:
    N0000175498
    M0017172
  pharm_class_epc:
    Polyene Antifungal [EPC]
  pharm_class_cs:
    Polyenes [CS]
  unii:
    BDF1O1C72E
