spl_product_data_elements:
  Olopatadine Hydrochloride Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution OLOPATADINE OLOPATADINE POVIDONE SODIUM PHOSPHATE, DIBASIC SODIUM CHLORIDE EDETATE DISODIUM BENZALKONIUM CHLORIDE HYDROCHLORIC ACID SODIUM HYDROXIDE
indications_and_usage:
  1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0.2% is a mast cell stabilizer indicated for the treatment of ocular itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis. ( 1 ) Olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0.2% is indicated for the treatment of ocular itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis.
dosage_and_administration:
  2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is one drop in each affected eye once a day. ( 2 ) The recommended dose is one drop in each affected eye once a day.
dosage_forms_and_strengths:
  3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ophthalmic solution 0.2%; each ml contains 2.22mg of olopatadine hydrochloride. Ophthalmic solution, USP 0.2%: each ml contains 2.22 mg of olopatadine hydrochloride.
contraindications:
  4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None.
warnings_and_cautions:
  5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS For topical ocular use only. Not for injection or oral use. ( 5.1 ) 5.1 For topical ocular use only. Not for injection or oral use. 5.2 Contamination of Tip and Solution As with any eye drop, to prevent contaminating the dropper tip and solution, care should be taken not to touch the eyelids or surrounding areas with the dropper tip of the bottle. Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use. 5.3 Contact Lens Use Patients should be advised not to wear a contact lens if their eye is red. Olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0.2% should not be used to treat contact lens related irritation. The preservative in olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0.2%, benzalkonium chloride, may be absorbed by soft contact lenses. Patients who wear soft contact lenses and whose eyes are not red , should be instructed to wait at least ten minutes after instilling olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0.2% before they insert their contact lenses.
adverse_reactions:
  6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Symptoms similar to cold syndrome and pharyngitis were reported at an incidence of approximately 10%. ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Cipla Ltd. 1-866-604-3268 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or FDA or www.fda.gov/medwatch . Symptoms similar to cold syndrome and pharyngitis were reported at an incidence of approximately 10%. The following adverse experiences have been reported in 5% or less of patients: Ocular: blurred vision, burning or stinging, conjunctivitis, dry eye, foreign body sensation, hyperemia, hypersensitivity, keratitis, lid edema, pain and ocular pruritus. Non-ocular: asthenia, back pain, flu syndrome, headache, increased cough, infection, nausea, rhinitis, sinusitis and taste perversion. Some of these events were similar to the underlying disease being studied.
use_in_specific_populations:
  8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8.1 Pregnancy Teratogenic effects: Pregnancy Category C Olopatadine was found not to be teratogenic in rats and rabbits. However, rats treated at 600 mg/kg/day, or 150,000 times the MROHD and rabbits treated at 400 mg/kg/day, or approximately 100,000 times the MROHD, during organogenesis showed a decrease in live fetuses. In addition, rats treated with 600 mg/kg/day of olopatadine during organogenesis showed a decrease in fetal weight. Further, rats treated with 600 mg/kg/day of olopatadine during late gestation through the lactation period showed a decrease in neonatal survival and body weight. There are, however, no adequate and well- controlled studies in pregnant women. Because animal studies are not always predictive of human responses, this drug should be used in pregnant women only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the embryo or fetus. 8.3 Nursing Mothers Olopatadine has been identified in the milk of nursing rats following oral administration. It is not known whether topical ocular administration could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in the human breast milk. Nevertheless, caution should be exercised when olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0.2% is administered to a nursing mother. 8.4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years have not been established. 8.5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety and effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients.
pregnancy:
  8.1 Pregnancy Teratogenic effects: Pregnancy Category C Olopatadine was found not to be teratogenic in rats and rabbits. However, rats treated at 600 mg/kg/day, or 150,000 times the MROHD and rabbits treated at 400 mg/kg/day, or approximately 100,000 times the MROHD, during organogenesis showed a decrease in live fetuses. In addition, rats treated with 600 mg/kg/day of olopatadine during organogenesis showed a decrease in fetal weight. Further, rats treated with 600 mg/kg/day of olopatadine during late gestation through the lactation period showed a decrease in neonatal survival and body weight. There are, however, no adequate and well- controlled studies in pregnant women. Because animal studies are not always predictive of human responses, this drug should be used in pregnant women only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the embryo or fetus.
nursing_mothers:
  8.3 Nursing Mothers Olopatadine has been identified in the milk of nursing rats following oral administration. It is not known whether topical ocular administration could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in the human breast milk. Nevertheless, caution should be exercised when olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0.2% is administered to a nursing mother.
pediatric_use:
  8.4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years have not been established.
geriatric_use:
  8.5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety and effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients.
description:
  11 DESCRIPTION Olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution USP 0.2% is a sterile ophthalmic solution containing olopatadine for topical administration to the eyes. Olopatadine hydrochloride is a white, crystalline, water-soluble powder with a molecular weight of 373.88 and a molecular formula of C 21 H 23 NO 3 • HCl. The chemical structure is presented below: Chemical Name: 11-[(Z)-3-(Dimethylamino)propylidene]-6-11-dihydrodibenz[b,e]oxepin-2-acetic acid, hydrochloride Each mL of olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution USP 0.2% contains: Active : 2.22 mg olopatadine hydrochloride equivalent to 2 mg olopatadine. Inactives: povidone; dibasic sodium phosphate; sodium chloride; edetate disodium; benzalkonium chloride 0.01% ( preservative ); hydrochloric acid/sodium hydroxide (adjust pH); and water for injection. It has a pH of approximately 7 and an osmolality of approximately 300 mOsm/kg. image
clinical_pharmacology:
  12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Olopatadine is a mast cell stabilizer and a histamine H1 antagonist. Decreased chemotaxis and inhibition of eosinophil activation has also been demonstrated. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Systemic bioavailability data upon topical ocular administration of olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0.2% are not available. Following topical ocular administration of olopatadine 0.15% ophthalmic solution in man, olopatadine was shown to have a low systemic exposure. Two studies in normal volunteers (totaling 24 subjects) dosed bilaterally with olopatadine 0.15% ophthalmic solution once every 12 hours for 2 weeks demonstrated plasma concentrations to be generally below the quantitation limit of the assay (< 0.5 ng/mL). Samples in which olopatadine was quantifiable were typically found within 2 hours of dosing and ranged from 0.5 to 1.3 ng/mL. The elimination half-life in plasma following oral dosing was 8 to 12 hours, and elimination was predominantly through renal excretion. Approximately 60 - 70% of the dose was recovered in the urine as parent drug. Two metabolites, the mono-desmethyl and the N-oxide, were detected at low concentrations in the urine.
mechanism_of_action:
  12.1 Mechanism of Action Olopatadine is a mast cell stabilizer and a histamine H1 antagonist. Decreased chemotaxis and inhibition of eosinophil activation has also been demonstrated.
pharmacokinetics:
  12.3 Pharmacokinetics Systemic bioavailability data upon topical ocular administration of olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0.2% are not available. Following topical ocular administration of olopatadine 0.15% ophthalmic solution in man, olopatadine was shown to have a low systemic exposure. Two studies in normal volunteers (totaling 24 subjects) dosed bilaterally with olopatadine 0.15% ophthalmic solution once every 12 hours for 2 weeks demonstrated plasma concentrations to be generally below the quantitation limit of the assay (< 0.5 ng/mL). Samples in which olopatadine was quantifiable were typically found within 2 hours of dosing and ranged from 0.5 to 1.3 ng/mL. The elimination half-life in plasma following oral dosing was 8 to 12 hours, and elimination was predominantly through renal excretion. Approximately 60 - 70% of the dose was recovered in the urine as parent drug. Two metabolites, the mono-desmethyl and the N-oxide, were detected at low concentrations in the urine.
nonclinical_toxicology:
  13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13.1 Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Olopatadine administered orally was not carcinogenic in mice and rats in doses up to 500 mg/kg/day and 200 mg/kg/day, respectively. Based on a 40 microliter drop size and a 50 kg person, these doses were approximately 150,000 and 50,000 times higher than the maximum recommended ocular human dose (MROHD). No mutagenic potential was observed when olopatadine was tested in an in vitro bacterial reverse mutation (Ames) test, an in vitro mammalian chromosome aberration assay or an in vivo mouse micronucleus test. Olopatadine administered to male and female rats at oral doses of approximately 100,000 times MROHD level resulted in a slight decrease in the fertility index and reduced implantation rate; no effects on reproductive function were observed at doses of approximately 15,000 times the MROHD level.
clinical_studies:
  14 CLINICAL STUDIES Results from clinical studies of up to 12 weeks duration demonstrate that olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0.2% when dosed once a day is effective in the treatment of ocular itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis.
how_supplied:
  16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution USP 0.2% is supplied in a white opaque, round, low density polyethylene bottle with translucent low density polyethylene dropper & white opaque high density polyethylene cap. Tamper evidence is provided with a shrink sleeve covering the closure and the bottle. 2.5 mL fill in 5 mL bottle (NDC 69097-276-33) Storage Store between 4°C-25°C (39°F-77°F), Protect from light.
information_for_patients:
  17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17.1 Topical Ophthalmic Use Only For topical ophthalmic administration only. 17.2 Sterility of Dropper Tip Patients should be advised to not touch dropper tip to any surface, as this may contaminate the contents. 17.3 Concomitant Use of Contact Lenses Patients should be advised not to wear a contact lens if their eyes are red. Patients should be advised that olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0.2% should not be use to treat contact lens-related irritation. Patients should also be advised to remove contact lenses prior to instillation of olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0.2%. The preservative in olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0.2%, benzalkonium chloride may be absorbed by soft contact lenses. Lenses may be reinserted following administration of olopatadine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 0.2%. Manufactured by: Cipla Ltd., India Manufactured for: Cipla USA, Inc., 10 Independence Boulevard, Suite 300, Warren, NJ 07059 Revised Date: 6/2020
spl_patient_package_insert:
  
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PACKAGE LABEL.PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 69097- 276 -33 Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution, USP 0.2% Rx ONLY NDC 69097- 276 -33 Rx ONLY Olopatadine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution, USP 0.2% For Topical Application in the Eye 2.5 mL Cipla label carton
set_id:
  a7f2ee4d-8428-47bb-a856-bef69e9089d9
id:
  86cb500b-50be-4930-a522-3dc4a8f818f8
effective_time:
  20220113
version:
  6
openfda:
