effective_time:
  20191030
recent_major_changes:
  
inactive_ingredient:
  INACTIVE INGREDIENTS isopropyl alcohol (70% v/v), water
purpose:
  PURPOSE Cold Sore / Fever Blister Treatment; Topical Antiseptic Pain Relief During Applications
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  KEEP OUR OF REACH OF CHILDREN In case of overdose, or allergic reaction, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
warnings:
  WARNINGS For external use only. Flammable, keep away from fire or flame. Allergy alert: do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine, butacaine, benzocaine or other "caine" anesthetics Do not use in the eyes over large areas of the body if you are allergic to any ingredient in the product more than 3 times per day longer than one week unless directed by a physician Stop use and ask a dentist or physician if condition persists or worsens symptoms persist for more than 7 days Ask a physician if used to treat deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns you are pregnant or nursing a baby When using this product you may feel a brief stinging sensation when applying it. The sting should go away in a short time.
questions:
  Questions or coments? call us at 1-800-952-5080 M-F ET or visit our website at www.orajel.com
spl_product_data_elements:
  Orajel for Cold Sores Single Dose Benzalkonium Chloride, Benzocaine ISOPROPYL ALCOHOL WATER BENZALKONIUM CHLORIDE BENZALKONIUM BENZOCAINE BENZOCAINE
openfda:
version:
  3
dosage_and_administration:
  DIRECTIONS Adults and children over 2 years of age: Clean the lip area of any lip preparations, lotions, ointments, residual beverages, or cosmetics including lipstick using only warm water or alcohol Slide off to remove the protective blue paper cover and slide it on the other end-opposite the white applicator tip Squeeze the vial firmly on the arrow shown on the blue paper cap until you hear it snap Hold with the white applicator tip down to allow the medication to saturate the tip To minimize pain during application gently touch the site of the cold sore with the saturated applicator tip. Once the area is numb, rub the site of the cold sore and the surrounding area. Rub firmly to allow the treatment to deeply penetrate the skin. To treat most cold sores, usually one treatment is enough. If your symptoms go away and then return later, apply another dose for the second cold sore Do not use more than 3 times per day Discard after use. Children under 2 years of age: ask a dentist or physician. OTHER INFORMATION Store at room temperature The ingredients in toothpaste, soft drinks, and some fruit juices can de-activate the active ingredient in Orajel Single Dose. For best results, avoid brushing your teeth with toothpaste or drinking soft drinks or fruit juices for one hour after applying the drug.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  NEW Orajel Instant Pain Relief FOR COLD SORES ONE DAY, ONE DOSE, HEALING BEGINS SINGLE DOSE Patented Cold Sore Treatment CONTAINS 2 ONE DAY TREATMENT VIALS TOPICAL ANTISEPTIC/TOPICAL ANESTHETIC NET 0.04 FL OZ (1.2 mL) Total TOUCH-FREE APPLICATOR Package Front Package Back Package Front Package Back
indications_and_usage:
  USES to treat cold sores / fever blisters to help guard against infection
set_id:
  d0c9a69f-c0fe-4feb-928b-7dc4602185a5
id:
  96252c55-8028-3482-e053-2a95a90a1d50
active_ingredient:
  ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Benzalkonium chloride, 0.13% Benzocaine, 5%
