effective_time:
  20100721
purpose:
  Use for temporary relief of minor discomfort and protection of irritated areas in sore mouth and sore throat
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Warnings Keep out of the reach of children. If an excessive amount of gel is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days, see your dentist or doctor promptly.
questions:
  Questions or comments: Call us at 1-800952-5080 M-F 9am-5pm ET or visit our webiste at www.orajel.com
spl_product_data_elements:
  Orajel Dry Mouth Moistruizing Glycerin GLYCERIN GLYCERIN EDETATE CALCIUM DISODIUM ANHYDROUS CITRIC ACID MONOHYDRATE METHYLPARABEN PROPYLPARABEN WATER SORBITOL SUCRALOSE XANTHAN GUM
ask_doctor:
  Directions use as needed or as directed by a dentist or doctor puncture safety seal with opposite end of tube cap do not use if safety seal is damaged or mission prior to first use Adults and children 2 years Apply a one-inch strip of product directly to tongue and around of age and older the inside and outside of the tooth and gum surface. Do not rinse out. Children under 12 years of age Should be supervised in the use of this product Children under 2 years of age Consult a dentist or doctor Inactive ingredients calcium disodium EDTA, citric acid, disodium phosphate, flavor, methylparaben, propylparaben, purified water, sorbitol, sucralose, Thinone Complex (a patented proprietarey blend of antioxidants, xanthan gum.
openfda:
version:
  2
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Carton image Carton image
set_id:
  0d371e48-d722-4b77-b354-5a44179247bc
id:
  5be76374-91b7-4f74-86e0-16a07ca17968
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Purpose Glyercin 18% Oral demulcent Use for temporary relief of minor discomfort and protection of irritated areas in sore mouth and sore throat Warnings Keep out of the reach of children. If an excessive amount of gel is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days, see your dentist or doctor promptly. Directions use as needed or as directed by a dentist or doctor puncture safety seal with opposite end of tube cap do not use if safety seal is damaged or mission prior to first use Adults and children 2 years Apply a one-inch strip of product directly to tongue and around of age and older the inside and outside of the tooth and gum surface. Do not rinse out. Children under 12 years of age Should be supervised in the use of this product Children under 2 years of age Consult a dentist or doctor Inactive ingredients calcium disodium EDTA, citric acid, disodium phosphate, flavor, methylparaben, propylparaben, purified water, sorbitol, sucralose, Thinone Complex (a patented proprietarey blend of antioxidants, xanthan gum. Questions or comments: Call us at 1-800952-5080 M-F 9am-5pm ET or visit our webiste at www.orajel.com
