effective_time:
  20160126
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive Ingredients Purified Water, Glycerin, Flavor, Sodium Saccharin
  Inactive Ingredients Purified Water, Glycerin, Sorbitol, Flavor, Benzoic Acid, Sodium Benzoate, Sodium Saccharin, D&C Green 5
purpose:
  Purpose Oral Debriding Agent
  Purpose Antigingivitis/Antiplaque
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children under 3 years of age.
  Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age. If more than used for rinsing is accidently swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
warnings:
  Warnings Stop use and ask a doctor if: Swelling, rash, or fever develop. Severe or persistent sore throat or sore throat accompanied by high fever, headache, nausea, and vomiting occurs. Do not use more than 2 days or administer to children under 3 years of age unless directed by a physician. Keep out of reach of children under 3 years of age.
  Warnings Stop use and ask a doctor if: Gingivitis, bleeding, or redness persists for more than 2 weeks. You have painful or swollen gums, pus from the gum line, loose teeth, or increasing spacing between the teeth. These may be signs or symptoms or periodontitis, a serious form of gum disease. Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age. If more than used for rinsing is accidently swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
questions:
  Questions or Comments? 1-800-KCHELPS
  Questions or Comments? 1-844-425-9273
spl_product_data_elements:
  Oral Care Q4 Kit Hydrogen peroxide Hydrogen peroxide Hydrogen peroxide Hydrogen peroxide Hydrogen peroxide Water Glycerin Mint Saccharin Sodium Dihydrate Cetylpyridinium Chloride Cetylpyridinium Chloride Cetylpyridinium Chloride Cetylpyridinium Water Benzoic Acid Saccharin Sodium Dihydrate Sodium Benzoate Glycerin D&C Green No. 5 Sorbitol Mint Mouth Moisturizer Mouth Moisturizer Water Xylitol Sodium Benzoate Aloe Vera Flower Propylene Glycol Potassium Sorbate Sorbitol Hydroxypropyl Cellulose (Type H) Dimethicone Potassium Chloride
openfda:
version:
  1
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions Topical dosage for adults and children 3 years of age and older is a rinse used no more than 4 times daily. For children under 3 years of age, there is no recommended dosage except under the advice and supervision of a dentist or doctor. Use only under health care practitioners supervision.
  Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and older: Use as directed by a dentist. DO not swallow the rinse. Children 6 years to under 12 years of age: supervised use. Children under 6 years of age: do not use. Use only under health care practitioner's supervision.
spl_unclassified_section:
  Oral Debriding Agent Drug Facts
  
  Antiplaque Solution Drug Facts
  Manufactured by Kimberly-Clark, Roswell, GA 30076 USA Distributed in the U.S. by Kimberly-Clark Global Sales, LLC, Roswell, GA 30076 USA
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if: Swelling, rash, or fever develop. Severe or persistent sore throat or sore throat accompanied by high fever, headache, nausea, and vomiting occurs.
  Stop use and ask a doctor if: Gingivitis, bleeding, or redness persists for more than 2 weeks. You have painful or swollen gums, pus from the gum line, loose teeth, or increasing spacing between the teeth. These may be signs or symptoms or periodontitis, a serious form of gum disease.
storage_and_handling:
  Other Information Store at room temperature.
  Other Information This rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing. Store at room temperature.
do_not_use:
  Do not use more than 2 days or administer to children under 3 years of age unless directed by a physician.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton HALYARD* 24-HOUR ORAL CARE KIT with BALLARD* Technology q4 1 HALYARD* Prep Pack 2 HALYARD* Toothbrush Packs 4 HALYARD* Suction Swab Packs with H 2 O 2 2 HALYARD* Suction Catheter Packs Principal Display Panel - Kit Carton
indications_and_usage:
  Uses Aids in the removal of phlegm, mucus, or other secretions in the temporary relief of discomfort due to occasional sore throat and sore mouth.
  Uses Helps remove plaque that leads to gingivitis.
set_id:
  10c813e1-87a8-408a-a190-7e5f82bd9306
id:
  4ea2da50-ef91-4105-b068-d94dfed088a9
active_ingredient:
  Active Ingredient Hydrogen Peroxide 1.5%
  Active Ingredient Cetylpyridinium Chloride 0.05%
