effective_time:
  20170114
drug_interactions:
  Drug Interactions Seb-Prev™ Gel is incompatible with silver preparations.
precautions:
  PRECAUTIONS General Nonsusceptible organisms, including fungi, may proliferate with the use of this preparation. Hypersensitivity reactions may recur when a sulfonamide is readministered, irrespective of the route of administration, and cross hypersensitivity between different sulfonamides may occur. If Seb-Prev™ Gel produces signs of hypersensitivity or other untoward reactions, discontinue use of the preparation. Systemic absorption of topical sulfonamides is greater following application to large, infected, abraded, denuded, or severely burned areas. Under these circumstances, potentially any of the adverse effects produced by the systemic administration of these agents could occur and appropriate observations and laboratory determinations should be performed. Information For Patients Patients should discontinue Seb-Prev™ Gel if the condition becomes worse, or if a rash develops in the area being treated or elsewhere. Seb-Prev™ Gel also should be discontinued promptly and the physician notified if any arthritis, fever, or sores in the mouth develop. For external use only. Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes. Keep this and all medications out of reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, call a physician or poison control center immediately (see OVERDOSAGE ). Drug Interactions Seb-Prev™ Gel is incompatible with silver preparations. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, and Impairment of Fertility Long-term animal studies for carcinogenic potential have not been performed on Seb-Prev™ Gel to date. Studies on reproduction and fertility also have not been performed. One author detected chromosomal nondisjunction in the yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, following application of sulfacetamide sodium. The significance of this finding to the topical use of sulfacetamide sodium in the human is unknown. Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Seb-Prev™ Gel. It also is not known whether Seb-Prev™ Gel can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. Seb-Prev™ Gel should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed. Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk, caution should be exercised when Seb-Prev™ Gel is administered to a nursing woman. Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 years have not been established.
description:
  DESCRIPTION Each gram of Seb-Prev™ Gel contains 100 mg of Sulfacetamide Sodium USP in a vehicle consisting of edetate disodium, glycerin, methylparaben, propylene glycol, purified water, sodium thiosulfate, and xanthan gum. Sulfacetamide sodium is C8H9N2NaO3S•H2O with a molecular weight of 254.24. Chemically, it is Acetamide N -[(4-aminophenyl)sulfonyl]-, monosodium salt, monohydrate, with the following structural formula: Sulfacetamide sodium is an odorless, white, crystalline powder with a bitter taste. It is freely soluble in water, sparingly soluble in alcohol, while practically insoluble in benzene, in chloroform, and in ether. structural formula
general_precautions:
  General Nonsusceptible organisms, including fungi, may proliferate with the use of this preparation. Hypersensitivity reactions may recur when a sulfonamide is readministered, irrespective of the route of administration, and cross hypersensitivity between different sulfonamides may occur. If Seb-Prev™ Gel produces signs of hypersensitivity or other untoward reactions, discontinue use of the preparation. Systemic absorption of topical sulfonamides is greater following application to large, infected, abraded, denuded, or severely burned areas. Under these circumstances, potentially any of the adverse effects produced by the systemic administration of these agents could occur and appropriate observations and laboratory determinations should be performed.
storage_and_handling:
  Store at 20°-25°C (68°-77°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Do not freeze. Occasionally, a slight yellowish discoloration may occur when an excessive amount of the product is used and comes in contact with white fabrics. This discoloration is readily removed by ordinary laundering without bleaches.
indications_and_usage:
  INDICATIONS AND USAGE Seb-Prev™ Gel is intended for topical application in the following scaling dermatoses: seborrheic dermatitis and seborrhea sicca (dandruff). It also is indicated for the treatment of secondary bacterial infections of the skin due to organisms susceptible to sulfonamides.
set_id:
  9d5e2c9e-9a70-45e2-a497-4ec1c51d5f51
id:
  542806e4-8a0e-4376-89fe-004e69e75292
teratogenic_effects:
  Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Seb-Prev™ Gel. It also is not known whether Seb-Prev™ Gel can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. Seb-Prev™ Gel should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed.
pediatric_use:
  Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 years have not been established.
contraindications:
  CONTRAINDICATIONS Seb-Prev™ Gel is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to sulfonamides or to any of the ingredients of the product.
warnings:
  WARNINGS Sulfonamides are known to cause Stevens-Johnson syndrome in hypersensitive individuals. Stevens-Johnson syndrome also has been reported following the use of sulfacetamide sodium topically. Cases of drug-induced systemic lupus erythematosus from topical sulfacetamide also have been reported. In one of these cases, there was a fatal outcome.
pregnancy:
  Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Seb-Prev™ Gel. It also is not known whether Seb-Prev™ Gel can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. Seb-Prev™ Gel should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed.
nursing_mothers:
  Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk, caution should be exercised when Seb-Prev™ Gel is administered to a nursing woman.
spl_product_data_elements:
  Perrigo Seb Prev Sodium Sulfacetamide SULFACETAMIDE SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE clear to pale yellow
openfda:
version:
  4
dosage_and_administration:
  DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Seborrheic dermatitis including seborrhea sicca: Apply to affected areas twice daily (morning and evening), or as directed by your physician. Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes. Repeat application as described for eight to ten days. As the condition subsides, the interval between applications may be lengthened. Applications once or twice weekly or every other week may prevent recurrence. Should the condition recur after stopping therapy, the application of Seb-Prev™ Gel should be reinitiated as at the beginning of treatment. Secondary cutaneous bacterial infections: Apply to affected areas twice daily for eight to ten days.
adverse_reactions:
  ADVERSE REACTIONS Reports of irritation and hypersensitivity to sulfacetamide sodium are uncommon. The following adverse reactions, reported after administration of sterile ophthalmic sulfacetamide sodium, are noteworthy: instances of Stevens-Johnson syndrome and instances of local hypersensitivity which progressed to a syndrome resembling systemic lupus erythematosus; in one case a fatal outcome has been reported (see WARNINGS ).
spl_unclassified_section:
  Seb-Prev Gel (Sodium Sulfacetamide 10%) Rx Only FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE
  MANUFACTURED BY STIEFEL LABORATORIES, INC. CORAL GABLES, FL 33134 DISTRIBUTED BY PERRIGO® ALLEGAN, MI 49010 Rev. 10/07 81084 : 5P600 RC J1
how_supplied:
  HOW SUPPLIED Seb-Prev™ Gel is available as follows: 30 g tube (NDC 45802- 960 -94) 60 g tube (NDC 45802- 960 -96)
information_for_patients:
  Information For Patients Patients should discontinue Seb-Prev™ Gel if the condition becomes worse, or if a rash develops in the area being treated or elsewhere. Seb-Prev™ Gel also should be discontinued promptly and the physician notified if any arthritis, fever, or sores in the mouth develop. For external use only. Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes. Keep this and all medications out of reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, call a physician or poison control center immediately (see OVERDOSAGE ).
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Principal Display Panel - 30 g Carton Seb-Prev™ Gel (Sodium Sulfacetamide 10%) For Dermatologic Use Only. Not for Ophthalmic Use. Rx Only Seb-Prev(tm) Gel - 30 g Carton Seb-Prev(tm) Gel - 30 g Carton Seb-Prev(tm) Gel - 30 g Carton
  Principal Display Panel - 30 g Tube Seb-Prev™ Gel (Sodium Sulfacetamide 10%) For Dermatologic Use Only. Not for Ophthalmic Use. Rx Only Seb-Prev(tm) Gel - 30 g Tube Seb-Prev(tm) Gel - 30 g Tube Seb-Prev(tm) Gel - 30 g Tube
  Principal Display Panel - 60 g Carton Seb-Prev™ Gel (Sodium Sulfacetamide 10%) For Dermatologic Use Only. Not for Ophthalmic Use. Rx Only Seb-Prev(tm) Gel - 60 g Carton Seb-Prev(tm) Gel - 60 g Carton Seb-Prev(tm) Gel - 60 g Carton
  Principal Display Panel - 60 g Tube Seb-Prev™ Gel (Sodium Sulfacetamide 10%) For Dermatologic Use Only. Not for Ophthalmic Use. Rx Only Seb-Prev(tm) Gel - 60 g Tube Seb-Prev(tm) Gel - 60 g Tube Seb-Prev(tm) Gel - 60 g Tube
clinical_pharmacology:
  CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sulfacetamide sodium exerts a bacteriostatic effect against sulfonamide sensitive Gram-positive and Gram-negative microorganisms commonly isolated from secondary cutaneous pyogenic infections. It acts by restricting the synthesis of folic acid required by bacteria for growth, by its competition with para -aminobenzoic acid. There are no clinical data available on the degree and rate of systemic absorption of Seb-Prev™ Gel when applied to the skin or scalp. However, significant absorption of sulfacetamide sodium through the skin has been reported. The following in vitro data are available but their clinical significance is unknown. Organisms which show susceptibility to sulfacetamide sodium are: Streptococci, Staphylococci, E. coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Pseudomonas pyocyanea, Salmonella species, Proteus vulgaris, Nocardia and Actinomyces.
carcinogenesis_and_mutagenesis_and_impairment_of_fertility:
  Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, and Impairment of Fertility Long-term animal studies for carcinogenic potential have not been performed on Seb-Prev™ Gel to date. Studies on reproduction and fertility also have not been performed. One author detected chromosomal nondisjunction in the yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, following application of sulfacetamide sodium. The significance of this finding to the topical use of sulfacetamide sodium in the human is unknown.
overdosage:
  OVERDOSAGE The oral LD50 of sulfacetamide in mice is 16.5 g/kg. The LD50 for topical administration of sulfacetamide has not been determined. Oral overdosage may cause nausea and vomiting. Large oral overdosage may cause hematuria, crystalluria, and renal shutdown due to the precipitation of sulfa crystals in the renal tubules and the urinary tract. In the event of overdosage, call a physician or poison control center; emergency treatment should be started immediately. Treatment: The patient should be induced to vomit, even if emesis has occurred spontaneously. Pharmacologic vomiting by the administration of ipecac syrup is a preferred method. However, vomiting should not be induced in patients with impaired consciousness. The action of ipecac is facilitated by physical activity and by the administration of eight to twelve fluid ounces of water. If emesis does not occur within 15 minutes, the dose of ipecac should be repeated. Precautions against aspiration must be taken, especially in infants and children. Following emesis, any drug remaining in the stomach may be absorbed by activated charcoal administered as a slurry with water. If vomiting is unsuccessful or contraindicated, gastric lavage should be performed. Isotonic and one-half isotonic saline are the lavage solutions of choice. Saline cathartics, such as milk of magnesia, draw water into the bowel by osmosis and, therefore, may be valuable for their action in rapid dilution of bowel content. After emergency treatment, the patient should continue to be medically monitored. Observe kidney function for up to 1 week and have the patient ingest copious amounts of fluid during this period. Mannitol infusions may be helpful at the first sign of oliguria. Alkalinization of the urine by ingestion of bicarbonate is very helpful in preventing crystallization of sulfa drug in the kidney.
