spl_product_data_elements:
  phenobarbital, hyoscyamine sulfate, atropine sulfate, scopolamine hydrobromide phenobarbital, hyoscyamine sulfate, atropine sulfate, scopolamine hydrobromide PHENOBARBITAL PHENOBARBITAL HYOSCYAMINE SULFATE HYOSCYAMINE ATROPINE SULFATE ATROPINE SCOPOLAMINE HYDROBROMIDE SCOPOLAMINE WATER GLYCERIN SORBITOL ALCOHOL SUCROSE SACCHARIN SODIUM FD&C RED NO. 3 FD&C BLUE NO. 1 Artificial and Natural Grape phenobarbital, hyoscyamine sulfate, atropine sulfate, scopolamine hydrobromide phenobarbital, hyoscyamine sulfate, atropine sulfate, scopolamine hydrobromide PHENOBARBITAL PHENOBARBITAL HYOSCYAMINE SULFATE HYOSCYAMINE ATROPINE SULFATE ATROPINE SCOPOLAMINE HYDROBROMIDE SCOPOLAMINE WATER GLYCERIN SORBITOL ALCOHOL SUCROSE SACCHARIN SODIUM FD&C YELLOW NO. 5 FD&C BLUE NO. 1 Natural Mint
description:
  DESCRIPTION Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir - Grape Each 5 mL (teaspoonful) of elixir (alcohol not more than 23.8%) contains: Phenobarbital, USP................................. 16.2 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate, USP................ 0.1037 mg Atropine Sulfate, USP......................... 0.0194 mg Scopolamine Hydrobromide, USP.... 0.0065 mg Inactive Ingredients Purified Water, Glycerin, Sorbitol, Ethyl Alcohol, Sucrose, Saccharin Sodium, Artificial and Natural Grape Flavor, FD&C Red #3, and FD&C Blue #1. Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir – Mint Each 5 mL (teaspoonful) of elixir (alcohol not more than 23.8%) contains: Phenobarbital, USP................................. 16.2 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate, USP................ 0.1037 mg Atropine Sulfate, USP......................... 0.0194 mg Scopolamine Hydrobromide, USP.... 0.0065 mg Inactive Ingredients Purified Water, Glycerin, Sorbitol, Ethyl Alcohol, Sucrose, Saccharin Sodium, Natural Mint Flavor, FD&C Yellow #5, and FD&C Blue #1.
clinical_pharmacology:
  CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY This drug combination provides natural belladonna alkaloids in a specific, fixed ratio combined with phenobarbital to provide peripheral anticholinergic/antispasmodic action and mild sedation.
indications_and_usage:
  INDICATIONS & USAGE Based on a review of this drug by the National Academy of Sciences-National Research Council and/or other information, FDA has classified the indications as follows: “Possibly” effective: For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (irritable colon, spastic colon, mucous colitis) and acute enterocolitis. May also be useful as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of duodenal ulcer. Final classification of the less-than-effective indications requires further investigation. IT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN CONCLUSIVELY WHETHER ANTICHOLINERGIC/ANTISPASMODIC DRUGS AID IN THE HEALING OF A DUODENAL ULCER, DECREASE THE RATE OF RECURRENCES OR PREVENT COMPLICATIONS.
indications_and_usage_table:
  <table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" border="0"><tbody><tr><td styleCode="Lrule Rrule" valign="middle">Based on a review of this drug by the National Academy of Sciences-National Research Council and/or other information, FDA has classified the indications as follows: &#x201C;Possibly&#x201D; effective: For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (irritable colon, spastic colon, mucous colitis) and acute enterocolitis.   May also be useful as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of duodenal ulcer.   Final classification of the less-than-effective indications requires further investigation.   IT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN CONCLUSIVELY WHETHER ANTICHOLINERGIC/ANTISPASMODIC DRUGS AID IN THE HEALING OF A DUODENAL ULCER, DECREASE THE RATE OF RECURRENCES OR PREVENT COMPLICATIONS.</td></tr></tbody></table>
contraindications:
  CONTRAINDICATIONS • glaucoma; • obstructive uropathy (for example, bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy); • obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract (as in achalasia, pyloroduodenal stenosis, etc.); • paralytic ileus, intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient; • unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage; • severe ulcerative colitis especially if complicated by toxic megacolon; • myasthenia gravis; • hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis; • in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients. Phenobarbital is contraindicated in acute intermittent porphyria and in those patients in whom phenobarbital produces restlessness and/or excitement.
warnings:
  WARNINGS Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. In the presence of a high environmental temperature, heat prostration can occur with belladonna alkaloids (fever and heatstroke due to decreased sweating). Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction, especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy. In this instance, treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful. Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir may produce drowsiness or blurred vision. The patient should be warned, should these occur, not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery, and not to perform hazardous work. Phenobarbital may decrease the effect of anticoagulants, and necessitate larger doses of the anticoagulant for optimal effect. When the phenobarbital is discontinued, the dose of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased. Phenobarbital may be habit forming and should not be administered to individuals known to be addiction prone or to those with a history of physical and/or psychological dependence upon drugs. Since barbiturates are metabolized in the liver, they should be used with caution and initial doses should be small in patients with hepatic dysfunction.
precautions:
  PRECAUTIONS GENERAL Use with caution in patients with: • autonomic neuropathy • hepatic or renal disease • hyperthyroidism • coronary heart disease • congestive heart failure • cardiac arrhythmias • tachycardia • hypertension Belladonna alkaloids may produce a delay in gastric emptying (antral stasis) which would complicate the management of gastric ulcer. Do not rely on the use of the drug in the presence of complication of biliary tract disease. Theoretically, with overdosage, a curare-like action may occur. Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir – Mint contains FD&C Yellow No. 5 (tartrazine) which may cause allergic-type reactions (including bronchial asthma) in certain susceptible persons. Although the overall incidence of FD&C Yellow No. 5 (tartrazine) sensitivity in the general population is low, it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity. INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir may produce drowsiness or blurred vision. The patient should be warned, should these occur, not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery, and not to perform hazardous work. DRUG INTERACTIONS Phenobarbital may decrease the effect of anticoagulants, and necessitate larger doses of the anticoagulant for optimal effect. When the phenobarbital is discontinued, the dose of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased. CARCINOGENESIS & MUTAGENESIS & IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Long-term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential. PREGNANCY Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir. There is positive evidence of human fetal risk based on adverse reaction data from investigational or marketing experience or studies in humans, but potential benefits may warrant use of the drug in pregnant women despite potential risks ( see WARNINGS ). NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk, caution should be exercised when Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir is administered to a nursing woman. GERIATRIC USE Elderly patients may react with symptoms of excitement, agitation, drowsiness, and other untoward manifestations to even small doses of the drug.
general_precautions:
  GENERAL Use with caution in patients with: • autonomic neuropathy • hepatic or renal disease • hyperthyroidism • coronary heart disease • congestive heart failure • cardiac arrhythmias • tachycardia • hypertension Belladonna alkaloids may produce a delay in gastric emptying (antral stasis) which would complicate the management of gastric ulcer. Do not rely on the use of the drug in the presence of complication of biliary tract disease. Theoretically, with overdosage, a curare-like action may occur. Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir – Mint contains FD&C Yellow No. 5 (tartrazine) which may cause allergic-type reactions (including bronchial asthma) in certain susceptible persons. Although the overall incidence of FD&C Yellow No. 5 (tartrazine) sensitivity in the general population is low, it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity.
information_for_patients:
  INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir may produce drowsiness or blurred vision. The patient should be warned, should these occur, not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery, and not to perform hazardous work.
drug_interactions:
  DRUG INTERACTIONS Phenobarbital may decrease the effect of anticoagulants, and necessitate larger doses of the anticoagulant for optimal effect. When the phenobarbital is discontinued, the dose of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased.
carcinogenesis_and_mutagenesis_and_impairment_of_fertility:
  CARCINOGENESIS & MUTAGENESIS & IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Long-term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential.
pregnancy:
  PREGNANCY Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir. There is positive evidence of human fetal risk based on adverse reaction data from investigational or marketing experience or studies in humans, but potential benefits may warrant use of the drug in pregnant women despite potential risks ( see WARNINGS ).
nursing_mothers:
  NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk, caution should be exercised when Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir is administered to a nursing woman.
geriatric_use:
  GERIATRIC USE Elderly patients may react with symptoms of excitement, agitation, drowsiness, and other untoward manifestations to even small doses of the drug.
adverse_reactions:
  ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions may include xerostomia; urinary hesitancy and retention; blurred vision; tachycardia; palpitation; mydriasis; cycloplegia; increased ocular tension; loss of taste sense; headache; nervousness; drowsiness; weakness; dizziness; insomnia; nausea; vomiting; impotence; suppression of lactation; constipation; bloated feeling; musculoskeletal pain; severe allergic reaction or drug idiosyncrasies, including anaphylaxis, urticaria, and other dermal manifestations; and decreased sweating. Acquired hypersensitivity to barbiturates consists chiefly in allergic reactions that occur especially in persons who tend to have asthma, urticaria, angioedema, and similar conditions. Hypersensitivity reactions in this category include localized swelling, particularly of the eyelids, cheeks, or lips, and erythematous dermatitis. Rarely, exfoliative dermatitis (e.g. Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis) may be caused by phenobarbital and can prove fatal. The skin eruption may be associated with fever, delirium, and marked degenerative changes in the liver and other parenchymatous organs. In a few cases, megaloblastic anemia has been associated with the chronic use of phenobarbital. Phenobarbital may produce excitement in some patients, rather than a sedative effect. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Prasco Laboratories at 1-866-525-0688 or the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch.
drug_abuse_and_dependence:
  DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ABUSE Phenobarbital may be habit forming and should not be administered to individuals known to be addiction prone or to those with a history of physical and/or psychological dependence upon drugs ( see WARNINGS ). DEPENDENCE In patients habituated to barbiturates, abrupt withdrawal may produce delirium or convulsions.
abuse:
  ABUSE Phenobarbital may be habit forming and should not be administered to individuals known to be addiction prone or to those with a history of physical and/or psychological dependence upon drugs ( see WARNINGS ).
dependence:
  DEPENDENCE In patients habituated to barbiturates, abrupt withdrawal may produce delirium or convulsions.
overdosage:
  OVERDOSAGE The signs and symptoms of overdose are headache, nausea, vomiting, blurred vision, dilated pupils, hot and dry skin, dizziness, dryness of the mouth, difficulty in swallowing, and CNS stimulation. Treatment should consist of gastric lavage, emetics, and activated charcoal. If indicated, parenteral cholinergic agents such as physostigmine or bethanechol chloride should be used.
dosage_and_administration:
  DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The dosage of Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic control with a minimum of adverse effects. Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir. Adults: One or two teaspoonfuls of elixir three or four times a day according to conditions and severity of symptoms. Pediatric patients: may be dosed every 4 to 6 hours. Use a pediatric dosing device or oral syringe to measure the dose. Starting Dosage Body weight Every 4 hours Every 6 hours 10 lb. (4.5 kg) 0.5 mL 0.75 mL 20 lb. (9.1 kg) 1 mL 1.5 mL 30 lb. (13.6 kg) 1.5 mL 2 mL 50 lb. (22.7 kg) 2.5 mL 3.75 mL 75 lb. (34 kg) 3.75 mL 5 mL 100 lb. (45.4 kg) 5 mL 7.5 mL
how_supplied:
  HOW SUPPLIED Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir - Grape is a purple colored, grape flavored liquid. • 4 fl oz (118 mL) bottles- NDC 66993-118-55. • 1 Pint (473 mL) bottles- NDC 66993-118-57. Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir - Mint is a green colored, mint flavored liquid. • 4 fl oz (118 mL) bottles- NDC 66993-119-55. • 1 Pint (473 mL) bottles- NDC 66993-119-57. Avoid Freezing Store Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir at 20° - 25°C (68° - 77°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from light and moisture. Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container as defined in the USP using a child-resistant closure. DEA EXEMPT PRODUCT Distributed by: Prasco Laboratories Mason, OH 45040 Revised:02/20
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PACKAGE LABEL.PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Prasco NDC 66993-118-55 4 FL OZ Rx Only Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir Grape Flavored Each 5 mL (1 teaspoonful) contains: Phenobarbital, USP........................ 16.2 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate, USP........... 0.1037 mg Atropine Sulfate, USP................... 0.0194 mg Scopolamine Hydrobromide, USP 0.0065 mg Alcohol not more than 23.8% DO NOT USE IF TAMPER-EVIDENT SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING. 4oz-grape-bottle-label
  PACKAGE LABEL. PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Prasco NDC 66993-119-55 4 FL OZ Rx Only Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir Mint Flavored Each 5 mL (1 teaspoonful) contains: Phenobarbital, USP........................ 16.2 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate, USP........... 0.1037 mg Atropine Sulfate, USP................... 0.0194 mg Scopolamine Hydrobromide, USP 0.0065 mg Alcohol not more than 23.8% DO NOT USE IF TAMPER-EVIDENT SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING. 4oz-mint-bottle-label
  PACKAGE LABEL. PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Prasco NDC 66993-118-57 1 Pint Rx Only Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir Grape Flavored Each 5 mL (1 teaspoonful) contains: Phenobarbital, USP........................ 16.2 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate, USP........... 0.1037 mg Atropine Sulfate, USP................... 0.0194 mg Scopolamine Hydrobromide, USP 0.0065 mg Alcohol not more than 23.8% DO NOT USE IF TAMPER-EVIDENT SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING. Bulk Container- Not For Household Use 16oz-bottle-label-grape
  PACKAGE LABEL. PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Prasco NDC 66993-119-57 1 Pint Rx Only Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate, Scopolamine Hydrobromide Elixir Mint Flavored Each 5 mL (1 teaspoonful) contains: Phenobarbital, USP........................ 16.2 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate, USP........... 0.1037 mg Atropine Sulfate, USP................... 0.0194 mg Scopolamine Hydrobromide, USP 0.0065 mg Alcohol not more than 23.8% Contains color additives including FD&C Yellow No. 5 (tartrazine) DO NOT USE IF TAMPER-EVIDENT SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING. Bulk Container- Not For Household Use 16oz-bottle-label-mint
set_id:
  ccd9316e-b5b8-4814-8e26-bd29416cb0a3
id:
  b015de95-4e69-4a05-85aa-97e5da5767ca
effective_time:
  20211123
version:
  3
openfda:
