effective_time:
  20160511
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide, corn starch, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, potato starch, talc
instructions_for_use:
  Directions • take as soon as possible within 72 hours (3 days) after unprotected sex. The sooner you take it the better it will work. • if you vomit within 2 hours after taking the medication, call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose
purpose:
  Purpose Emergency contraceptive
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away.
warnings:
  Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to Levonorgestrel Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) alert: This product does not protect against HIV/AIDS or other STDs
when_using:
  When using this product you may have • menstrual changes • nausea • lower stomach (abdominal) pain • tiredness • headache • dizziness • breast pain • vomiting
questions:
  Questions? Call 1-800-330-1271 or visit www.PlanBOneStep.com
spl_product_data_elements:
  Plan B One-Step Levonorgestrel LEVONORGESTREL LEVONORGESTREL SILICON DIOXIDE STARCH, POTATO MAGNESIUM STEARATE TALC STARCH, CORN LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE G00 Plan B One-Step Levonorgestrel LEVONORGESTREL LEVONORGESTREL SILICON DIOXIDE STARCH, POTATO MAGNESIUM STEARATE TALC STARCH, CORN LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE G00
openfda:
version:
  3
dosage_and_administration:
  When should I use Plan B One-Step ® ? The sooner you take emergency contraception, the better it works. You should use Plan B One-Step ® within 72 hours (3 days) after you have had unprotected sex . Plan B One-Step ® is a backup or emergency method of birth control you can use when: • your regular birth control was used incorrectly or failed • you did not use any birth control method
spl_unclassified_section:
  Drug Facts
  Other information • read the instructions, warnings and enclosed product leaflet before use • this product works mainly by preventing ovulation (egg release). It may also prevent fertilization of a released egg (joining of sperm and egg) or attachment of a fertilized egg to the uterus (implantation). • do not use if carton is open or tear strip is removed or blister seal is broken or missing • store at 20-25°C (68-77°F)
  Plan B One-Step ® Emergency Contraceptive One Tablet. One Step. What You Need to Know
  What is Plan B One-Step®? Plan B One-Step ® is emergency contraception that helps prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex. It is a backup method of preventing pregnancy and should not be used as regular birth control.
  What Plan B One-Step® is not. Plan B One-Step ® will not work if you are already pregnant and will not affect an existing pregnancy. Plan B One-Step ® will not protect you from HIV infection (the virus that causes AIDS) and other sexually transmitted diseases (STDs).
  When not to use Plan B One-Step ® . Plan B One-Step ® should not be used: • as a regular birth control method, because it’s not as effective as regular birth control. • if you are already pregnant, because it will not work. • if you are allergic to levonorgestrel or any other ingredients in Plan B One-Step ® .
  How does Plan B One-Step ® work? Plan B One-Step ® is one tablet with levonorgestrel, a hormone that has been used in many birth control pills for several decades. Plan B One-Step ® contains a higher dose of levonorgestrel than birth control pills, but works in a similar way to prevent pregnancy. It works mainly by stopping the release of an egg from the ovary. It is possible that Plan B One-Step ® may also work by preventing fertilization of an egg (the uniting of sperm with the egg) or by preventing attachment (implantation) to the uterus (womb).
  How can I get the best results from Plan B One-Step ® ? You have 72 hours (3 days) to try to prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex. The sooner you take Plan B One-Step ® , the better it works .
  How effective is Plan B One-Step ® ? If Plan B One-Step ® is taken as directed, it can significantly decrease the chance that you will get pregnant. About 7 out of every 8 women who would have gotten pregnant will not become pregnant.
  How will I know Plan B One-Step ® worked? You will know Plan B One-Step ® has been effective when you get your next period, which should come at the expected time, or within a week of the expected time. If your period is delayed beyond 1 week, it is possible you may be pregnant. You should get a pregnancy test and follow up with your healthcare professional.
  Will I experience any side effects? • some women may have changes in their period, such as a period that is heavier or lighter or a period that is early or late. If your period is more than a week late, you may be pregnant. • if you have severe abdominal pain, you may have an ectopic pregnancy, and should get immediate medical attention. • when used as directed, Plan B One-Step ® is safe and effective. Side effects may include changes in your period, nausea, lower stomach (abdominal) pain, tiredness, headache, dizziness, and breast tenderness. • if you vomit within 2 hours of taking the medication, call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose.
  What if I still have questions about Plan B One-Step ® ? If you have questions or need more information, call our toll-free number, 1-800-330-1271, or visit our website at www.PlanBOneStep.com .
  Other Information
  Keep out of reach of children: In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1-800-222-1222.
  Do not use if the blister seal is opened.
storage_and_handling:
  Store at room temperature 20–25°C (68–77°F). Active ingredient: levonorgestrel 1.5 mg Inactive ingredients: colloidal silicon dioxide, potato starch, magnesium stearate, talc, corn starch, lactose monohydrate If you are sexually active, you should see a healthcare provider for routine checkups. Your healthcare provider will talk to you about and, if necessary, test you for sexually transmitted diseases, teach you about effective methods of routine birth control, and answer any other questions you may have. ©2011 Teva Women’s Health, Inc. 799-33-100269 Rev.A Iss. 12/2011 Printed in USA
do_not_use:
  Do not use • if you are already pregnant (because it will not work) • for regular birth control
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Principal Display Panel, Part 1 of 3 Plan B One-Step® (levonorgestrel 1.5 mg), 1s Unit-Dose Box, Part 1 of 3
  Principal Display Panel, Part 2 of 3 Plan B One-Step® (levonorgestrel 1.5 mg), 1s Unit-Dose Box, Part 2 of 3
  Principal Display Panel, Part 3 of 3 Plan B One-Step® (levonorgestrel 1.5 mg), 1s Unit-Dose Box Text NDC 51285- 124 -88 Plan B One-Step® levonorgestrel 1.5 mg emergency contraceptive Reduces chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex. Not for regular birth control. One Tablet. One Step. Contains 1 Tablet 1.5mg Plan B One-Step® (levonorgestrel 1.5 mg), 1s Unit-Dose Box, Part 3 of 3
  Principal Display Panel, Part 1 of 3 Plan B One-Step® (levonorgestrel 1.5 mg), 1s CLINIC Unit-Dose Box, Part 1 of 3
  Principal Display Panel, Part 2 of 3 Plan B One-Step® (levonorgestrel 1.5 mg), 1s CLINIC Unit-Dose Box, Part 2 of 3
  Principal Display Panel, Part 3 of 3 Plan B One-Step® (levonorgestrel 1.5 mg), 1s CLINIC Unit-Dose Box Text FOR CLINIC USE ONLY. NDC 51285- 146 -19 Plan B One-Step® levonorgestrel 1.5 mg emergency contraceptive Reduces chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex. Not for regular birth control. One Tablet. One Step. Contains 1 Tablet 1.5mg Plan B One-Step® (levonorgestrel 1.5 mg), 1s CLINIC Unit-Dose Box, Part 3 of 3
indications_and_usage:
  Indications Use for women to reduce chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex (if a contraceptive failed or if you did not use birth control)
set_id:
  0ce3ccc4-23f2-4e0a-9650-856cf026c72c
id:
  3b558757-b3c1-4bc0-80c7-f081a3dc9272
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Levonorgestrel 1.5mg
