effective_time:
  20101008
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive Ingredient water
purpose:
  Homeopathic Medicine 0.34 fl oz (10 mL)
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep this and all other medications out of the reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately.
warnings:
  WARNING If symptoms persist more than a few days, contact a licensed practitioner. As with any drug, if you are pregnant or nursing a baby, seek the advice of a health care professional before using this product. Keep this and all other medications out of the reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. Protect from light and heat.
when_using:
  Protect from light and heat.
spl_product_data_elements:
  Pleo Poly T mycobacterium microti immunoserum rabbit, mycobacterium bovis immunoserum rabbit, and streptococcus pyogenes immunoserum rabbit mycobacterium microti immunoserum rabbit mycobacterium microti immunoserum rabbit mycobacterium bovis immunoserum rabbit mycobacterium bovis immunoserum rabbit streptococcus pyogenes immunoserum rabbit streptococcus pyogenes immunoserum rabbit water
ask_doctor:
  If symptoms persist more than a few days, contact a licensed practitioner.
openfda:
version:
  1
dosage_and_administration:
  DOSAGE Unless otherwise prescribed, apply 5-10 drops into the bend of the elbow and rub in three times daily.
pregnancy_or_breast_feeding:
  As with any drug, if you are pregnant or nursing a baby, seek the advice of a health care professional before using this product.
spl_unclassified_section:
  Made in Germany Distributed by: SANUM USA Corp. 1465 Slater Road Ferndale, WA 98248 Manufactured by: Sanum-Kehlbeck GmbH & Co. KG Hoya, Germany Rev. 05/2010
do_not_use:
  Tamper Evident Do not use this product if tamper-evident strip on base of bottle cap is missing or broken.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Bottle Label Pleo ® Poly T DROPS 9X (applied topically) Homeopathic Medicine Indications : headache and arthritis/ rheumatism pain. 0.34 fl oz (10 mL) Dosage : Unless otherwise prescribed, 5-10 drops into the bend of the elbow and rub in three times daily. Warning: If symptoms persist more than a few days, contact a licensed practitioner. As with any drug, if you are pregnant or nursing a baby, seek the advice of a health care professional before using this product. Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. Protect from light and heat. TAMPER EVIDENT : Do not use this product if tamper- evident seal on base of bottle cap is missing or broken. INGREDIENTS: 10 mL aqueous dilution contains: antitoxins and antigens 9X of Mycobacterium tuberculosis typus humanus, brevis, and bovinus; Diplococcus pneumoniae, Streptococcus mucosus. R.ev. 05/2010 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Bottle Label
indications_and_usage:
  Indications headache and arthritis/rheumatism pain.
set_id:
  3ac618f9-a1fa-4b86-b5f7-ee70df3d3e76
id:
  b177c431-160e-49b0-a794-8ed80387d88e
active_ingredient:
  INGREDIENTS 10 mL aqueous dilution contains: antitoxins and antigens 9X of Mycobacterium tuberculosis typus humanus, brevis, and bovinus; Diplococcus pneumoniae, Streptococcus mucosus. Inactive Ingredient water
