effective_time:
  20101007
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive Ingredient water
purpose:
  Homeopathic Medicine 0.34 fl oz (10 mL)
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep this and all other medications out of the reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately.
warnings:
  WARNING If symptoms persist more than a few days, contact a licensed practitioner. As with any drug, if you are pregnant or nursing a baby, seek the advice of a health care professional before using this product. Keep this and all other medications out of the reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. Protect from light and heat.
when_using:
  Protect from light and heat.
spl_product_data_elements:
  Pleo Poly A mycobacterium bovis immunoserum rabbit and mycobacterium microti immunoserum rabbit mycobacterium bovis immunoserum rabbit mycobacterium bovis immunoserum rabbit mycobacterium microti immunoserum rabbit mycobacterium microti immunoserum rabbit water
ask_doctor:
  If symptoms persist more than a few days, contact a licensed practitioner.
openfda:
version:
  1
dosage_and_administration:
  DOSAGE Unless otherwise prescribed, apply 5-10 drops into the bend of the elbow and rub in three times daily.
pregnancy_or_breast_feeding:
  As with any drug, if you are pregnant or nursing a baby, seek the advice of a health care professional before using this product.
spl_unclassified_section:
  Made in Germany Distributed by: SANUM USA Corp. 1465 Slater Road Ferndale, WA 98248 Manufactured by: Sanum-Kehlbeck GmbH & Co. KG Hoya, Germany Rev. 05/2010
do_not_use:
  Tamper Evident Do not use this product if tamper-evident strip on base of bottle cap is missing or broken.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Bottle Label Pleo ® Poly A DROPS 9X (applied topically) Homeopathic Medicine Indications : minor symptoms associated with aging such as joint and muscle stiffness; sleeplessness; dry skin; constipation. 0.34 fl oz (10 mL) Dosage : Unless otherwise prescribed, 5-10 drops into the bend of the elbow and rub in three times daily. Warning: If symptoms persist more than a few days, contact a licensed practitioner. As with any drug, if you are pregnant or nursing a baby, seek the advice of a health care professional before using this product. Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. Protect from light and heat. TAMPER EVIDENT : Do not use this product if tamper-evident seal on base of bottle cap is missing or broken. INGREDIENTS: 10 mL aqueous dilution contains: antitoxins and antigens 9X of Mycobacterium tuberculosis typus bovinus and brevis. Rev. 05/2010 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Bottle Label
indications_and_usage:
  Indications minor symptoms associated with aging such as joint and muscle stiffness; sleeplessness; dry skin; constipation.
set_id:
  f53b06e2-1556-4c46-bf8b-51b5aca70319
id:
  9d56e0a0-65ba-48cf-b473-419f10f342ae
active_ingredient:
  INGREDIENTS 10 mL aqueous dilution contains: antitoxins and antigens 9X of Mycobacterium tuberculosis typus bovinus and brevis. Inactive Ingredient water
