spl_product_data_elements:
  Quality Choice Vapor Steam camphor (synthetic) ALCOHOL CEDAR LEAF OIL EUCALYPTUS OIL LAURETH-7 MENTHOL NUTMEG OIL POLOXAMER 124 DIMETHICONE CAMPHOR (SYNTHETIC) CAMPHOR (SYNTHETIC)
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Camphor 6.2%
purpose:
  Purpose Cough suppressant
indications_and_usage:
  Use temporarily relieves cough ocurring with a cold
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only. Flammable. Keep away from fire or flame. For steam inhalation only. Ask a doctor before use if you have • a cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema • cough that ocurs with too much phlegm (mucus) When using this product, do not heat microwave use near an open flame take by mouth direct steam from the vaporizer too close to the face add to hot water or any container where heating water except when adding to cold water only in a hot steam vaporizer. May cause splattering and result in burns. Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or occurs with fever, rash, or headache that lasts. These could be signs of a serious condition. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. In case of eye exposure, flush with water.
do_not_use:
  For external use only. Flammable. Keep away from fire or flame. For steam inhalation only.
ask_doctor:
  Ask a doctor before use if you have • a cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema • cough that ocurs with too much phlegm (mucus)
when_using:
  When using this product, do not heat microwave use near an open flame take by mouth direct steam from the vaporizer too close to the face add to hot water or any container where heating water except when adding to cold water only in a hot steam vaporizer. May cause splattering and result in burns.
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or occurs with fever, rash, or headache that lasts. These could be signs of a serious condition.
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. In case of eye exposure, flush with water.
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions see important warnings under "When using this product" adults & children 2 years & over: use 1 tablespoon of solution for each quart of water or 1½ teaspoonful of solution for each pint of water add solution directly to cold water only in a hot steam vaporizer follow manufacturer's directions for using vaporizer breathe in the medicated vapors use up to three times daily or as directed by a doctor children under 2 years: ask a doctor
storage_and_handling:
  Other information close container tightly and store at room temperature away from heat
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients alcohol (78%), cedarleaf oil, dimethicone, eucalyptus oil, laureth-7, menthol, nutmeg oil, poloxamer 124
spl_unclassified_section:
  Tamper-evident: do not use if the imprinted seal under the cap is broken or missing. Keep this carton. It has important information.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Quality Choice Compare to the active ingredient in Vicks ® VapoSteam ®* MEDICATED VAPORIZING STEAM LIQUID COUGH SUPPRESSANT CONTAINS CAMPHOR Liquid Medication for Hot Steam Vaporizers Relieves Cough to Help You Rest CAUTION: NOT FOR INTERNAL USE Principal Display Panel
set_id:
  8722a545-e3e3-7457-e053-2991aa0aed60
id:
  0c19d7f4-1e48-51bb-e063-6294a90a8aca
effective_time:
  20231209
version:
  4
openfda:
