effective_time:
  20200320
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients carnauba wax, colloidal silicon dioxide, ferric oxide red, ferric oxide yellow, hypromellose, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, polydextrose, titanium dioxide and vanillin
purpose:
  Purpose Acid reducer
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away
warnings:
  Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to ranitidine or other acid reducers. Do not use if you have trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools. These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. with other acid reducers If you have kidney disease, except under the advice and supervision of a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition. heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness frequent chest pain frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn unexplained weight loss nausea or vomiting stomach pain kidney disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs. Stop use and ask a doctor if your heartburn continues or worsens you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away
questions:
  Questions? Call 1-800-706-5575
spl_product_data_elements:
  Ranitidine Ranitidine Hydrochloride Ranitidine Hydrochloride ranitidine CARNAUBA WAX SILICON DIOXIDE HYPROMELLOSE, UNSPECIFIED MAGNESIUM STEARATE MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE POLYDEXTROSE TITANIUM DIOXIDE VANILLIN FERRIC OXIDE RED FERRIC OXIDE YELLOW APO;RAN;150 ranitidine-150mg-otc-CTN
ask_doctor:
  Ask a doctor before use if you have had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition. heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness frequent chest pain frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn unexplained weight loss nausea or vomiting stomach pain kidney disease
openfda:
version:
  12
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions adults and children 12 years and over: to relieve symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water to prevent symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 30 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn can be used up to twice daily (do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours) children under 12 years; ask a doctor
pregnancy_or_breast_feeding:
  If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use.
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if your heartburn continues or worsens you need to take this product for more than 14 days
spl_unclassified_section:
  Other information do not use if printed foil under bottle cap is broken or torn store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F) avoid excessive heat or humidity this product is sodium and sugar free
do_not_use:
  Do not use if you have trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools. These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. with other acid reducers If you have kidney disease, except under the advice and supervision of a doctor
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Principal Display Panel Maximum Strength Ranitidine Tablets USP, 150 mg Acid Reducer Prevents & Relieves Heartburn Associated with Acid Indigestion & Sour Stomach Distributed by: Apotex Corp. Weston, Florida 33326, USA
indications_and_usage:
  Uses relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain foods and beverages
set_id:
  c816755c-055e-8cbc-9c7a-d794cda2d74b
id:
  89c200d6-4689-189a-1912-65e309c306e8
ask_doctor_or_pharmacist:
  Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs.
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient (in each tablet) Ranitidine 150 mg (as ranitidine hydrochloride, USP 168 mg)
