effective_time:
  20171121
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide, croscarmellose sodium, diethyl phthalate, hypromellose, iron oxide red, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, titanium dioxide.
purpose:
  Purpose Acid reducer
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
warnings:
  Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to ranitidine or other acid reducers Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools. These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. • with other acid reducers Ask a doctor before use if you have • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
questions:
  Questions or comments? 1-800-719-9260
spl_product_data_elements:
  Ranitidine 75 Ranitidine RANITIDINE HYDROCHLORIDE RANITIDINE SILICON DIOXIDE CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM DIETHYL PHTHALATE HYPROMELLOSES FERRIC OXIDE RED MAGNESIUM STEARATE CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE TITANIUM DIOXIDE W75
ask_doctor:
  Ask a doctor before use if you have • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness
openfda:
version:
  2
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions • adults and children 12 years and over: • to relieve symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water • to prevent symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water 30 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • can be used up to twice daily (do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours) • children under 12 years: ask a doctor
pregnancy_or_breast_feeding:
  If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use.
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days
storage_and_handling:
  Other information • do not use if printed foil under cap is broken or missing • store at 20° - 25°C (68° - 77°F) • avoid excessive heat or humidity • this product is sugar free
do_not_use:
  Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools. These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. • with other acid reducers
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Principal Display Panel Ranitidine 75 Ranitidine Tablets, 75 mg Acid Reducer One Tablet Relieves and Prevents: Heartburn Associated with Acid Indigestion and Sour Stomach Compare to the active ingredient of Zantac 75® # Doses {Replace "#" with number tablets in package} Ranitidine 75 Tablets Carton Ranitidine 75 Tablets Carton Ranitidine 75 Tablets Carton
indications_and_usage:
  Uses • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain foods and beverages
set_id:
  4267f4a8-98f6-41ed-813b-34327030f2f5
id:
  0ca51675-ed08-453d-bc24-fdc5c585d262
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient (in each tablet) Ranitidine 75 mg (as ranitidine hydrochloride 84 mg)
