effective_time:
  20160707
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide, corn starch, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, povidone, talc
purpose:
  Purpose Emergency contraceptive
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
warnings:
  Warnings Allergy alert Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to Levonorgestrel Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) alert This product does not protect against HIV/AIDS or other STDs Do not use if you are already pregnant (because it will not work) for regular birth control When using this product you may have menstrual changes nausea lower stomach (abdominal) pain tiredness headache dizziness breast pain vomiting Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
spl_patient_package_insert:
  React ™ Levonorgestrel Tablet 1.5 mg Emergency Contraceptive One Tablet. One Dose What You Need to Know What is React ™? React ™ is emergency contraception that helps prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex. It is a backup method of preventing pregnancy and should not be used as regular birth control. What React ™ is not. React ™ will not work if you are already pregnant and will not affect an existing pregnancy. React ™ will not protect you from HIV infection (the virus that causes AIDS) and other sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). When should I use React ™? The sooner you take emergency contraception, the better it works. You should use React ™ within 72 hours (3 days) after you have had unprotected sex. React ™ is a backup or emergency method of birth control you can use when: your regular birth control was used incorrectly or failed you did not use any birth control method When not to use React ™. React ™ should not be used: as a regular birth control method, because it's not as effective as regular birth control. if you are already pregnant, because it will not work. if you are allergic to levonorgestrel or any other ingredients in React ™. How does React ™ work? React ™ is one tablet with levonorgestrel, a hormone that has been used in many birth control pills for several decades. React ™ contains a higher dose of levonorgestrel than birth control pills, but works in a similar way to prevent pregnancy. It works mainly by stopping the release of an egg from the ovary. It is possible that React ™ may also work by preventing fertilization of an egg (the uniting of sperm with the egg) or by preventing attachment (implantation) to the uterus (womb). How can I get the best results from React ™? You have 72 hours (3 days) to try to prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex. The sooner you take React ™, the better it works. How effective is React ™? If React ™ is taken as directed, it can significantly decrease the chance that you will get pregnant. About 7 out of every 8 women who would have gotten pregnant will not become pregnant. How will I know React ™ worked? You will know React ™ has been effective when you get your next period, which should come at the expected time, or within a week of the expected time. If your period is delayed beyond 1 week, it is possible you may be pregnant. You should get a pregnancy test and follow up with your healthcare professional. Will I experience any side effects? some women may have changes in their period, such as a period that is heavier or lighter or a period that is early or late. If your period is more than a week late, you may be pregnant. if you have severe abdominal pain, you may have an ectopic pregnancy, and should get immediate medical attention. when used as directed, React ™ is safe and effective. Side effects may include changes in your period, nausea, lower stomach (abdominal) pain, tiredness, headache, dizziness, and breast tenderness. if you vomit within 2 hours of taking the medication, call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose. What if I still have questions about React ™? If you have questions or need more information, call our toll-free number, 1-800-346-6854 or visit our website at www.ReactContraceptive.com. Other Information Keep out of reach of children: In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1-800-222-1222. Do not use if the blister seal is opened. Store at room temperature 20–25°C (68–77°F). Active ingredient: levonorgestrel 1.5 mg Inactive ingredients: colloidal silicon dioxide, corn starch, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, povidone, talc If you are sexually active, you should see a healthcare provider for routine checkups. Your healthcare provider will talk to you about and, if necessary, test you for sexually transmitted diseases, teach you about effective methods of routine birth control, and answer any other questions you may have. Distributed by: Wockhardt USA LLC Parsippany, NJ 07054, USA Manufactured by Lotus Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Nantou Plant No. 30 Chenggong 1st Rd., Sinsing Village, Nantou City, Nantou County 54066, Taiwan 20050 Rev. 05/2016
when_using:
  When using this product you may have menstrual changes nausea lower stomach (abdominal) pain tiredness headache dizziness breast pain vomiting
questions:
  Questions or comments Call 1-800-346-6854, or Visit our Web site at www.ReactContraceptive.com
spl_product_data_elements:
  React Levonorgestrel Levonorgestrel Levonorgestrel Silicon Dioxide Starch, Corn Lactose Monohydrate Magnesium Stearate Povidones Talc
openfda:
version:
  2
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions take as soon as possible within 72 hours (3 days) after unprotected sex. The sooner you take it the better it will work. if you vomit within 2 hours after taking the medication, call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose.
spl_unclassified_section:
  Drug Facts
storage_and_handling:
  Other information read the instructions, warnings and enclosed product leaflet before use. this product works mainly by preventing ovulation (egg release). It may also prevent fertilization of a released egg (joining of sperm and egg) or attachment of a fertilized egg to the uterus (implantation). do not use if carton is open or tear strip is removed or blister seal is broken or missing store at 20-25°C (68-77°F)
do_not_use:
  Do not use if you are already pregnant (because it will not work) for regular birth control
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 Tablet Blister Pack Carton Over the Counter NDC-64679-050-02 React ™ levonorgestrel 1.5 mg tablet emergency contraceptive Reduces chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex. Not for regular birth control. * Compare to Plan B One Step ® Active ingredient Actual Size One Tablet. One Dose. Contains 1 Tablet 1.5mg PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 Tablet Blister Pack Carton
indications_and_usage:
  Use for women to reduce chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex (if a contraceptive failed or if you did not use birth control)
set_id:
  f1e9c8fa-a861-436e-83d7-cb3fa794d27f
id:
  3f8ed365-e606-4bea-ad68-0a04b27d4039
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Levonorgestrel 1.5 mg
