spl_product_data_elements:
  Rstrvbr QUIT SMOKING Nicotine21mg QUIT SMOKING NICOTINE NICOTINE POWDERED CELLULOSE 2-HYDROXYETHYL ACRYLATE METHACRYLIC ACID
active_ingredient:
  Active Ingredient Nicotine,2lmg delivered over 24 hours
purpose:
  Purpose stop smoking aid
indications_and_usage:
  Use reduces withdrawal symptoms,including nicotine craving,associated with quitting smoking
warnings:
  Warnings If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, only use this medicine on the advice of your health care provider.Smoking can seriously harm your child. Try to stop smoking without using any nicotine replacement medicine, This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking.However, the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known.
do_not_use:
  Do not use If you are allergic to any of the ingredients. ·Gastric ulcers or diabetes mellitus, history of seizures prohibited. · lf you are under 18 years of age without a doctor's recommendation. · Do not use on damaged skin or wounds.
when_using:
  When Using If you have vivid dreams or other sleep disturbances remov this patch at bedtime.
stop_use:
  Stop Use If Feeling uncomfortable or experiencing or other sensitive dizziness symptoms
ask_doctor:
  Ask Doctor Heart disease, recent heart attack, or irrepular heartbeat. Nicotine canincrease your heart high blood pressure not controlled with medication,Nicotine can increase your blood pressure. An allergy to adhesive tape or have skin problems because you are more likely to get rashes, Stomach ulcer or diabetes,History of seizures Using a non-nicotine stop smokindrug.Taking a prescription medicine for depression or asthma Your prescription dose may need to be adjusted
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep Oot Of Reach Of Children Keep out of reach of children and pets
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions lf you are under 18 years of age, ask a doctor before uSe, Beore using this product, need the enclosed self-help guidefor complete directions and other information.Bepin using the patch on your quit day. lf you smoke more than 10 cigarettes per day, use the following schedule below. The used patch should be removed and a new one applied to a different skin site at the same time each day.If you have vivid dreams, you may remove the patch at bedtime and apply a new one in the morninp.Do not wear more than one patch at a time.Dnot cut patch in half or into smaller pieces.Do not leave patch on for more than 24 hours. Because it may irritate your skinand loses strength after 24 hours.To avoid possible bums,remove patch before undergoing any MRl (magnetic resonance imaging)procedures. It is important to complete treatrent, if you feel you need to use the patch for a longer period to keep from smoking, talk to your health care provider.Signs of excessive use may include nauseavomiting,dizzines,weakness, or rapidheartbeat. lf these Symptoms occur, remove the patch immediately and contata doctor or poison control center.
storage_and_handling:
  Other information store at 20-25℃ lnactive
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients acrylate adhesive，cellulose paper，methacrylic acid .
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 18
set_id:
  3e55679a-97b8-b0b4-e063-6294a90a0154
id:
  4a47ee89-f248-2ac9-e063-6394a90aa8cd
effective_time:
  20260207
version:
  2
openfda:
