spl_product_data_elements:
  Rugby Capsaicin External Analgesic Capsaicin CAPSAICIN CAPSAICIN CARBOMER COPOLYMER TYPE A (ALLYL PENTAERYTHRITOL CROSSLINKED) CETYL ACETATE METHYLPARABEN PPG-20 METHYL GLUCOSE ETHER DISTEARATE PROPYLENE GLYCOL PROPYLPARABEN STEARETH-100 STEARIC ACID STEARYL ALCOHOL TROLAMINE WATER
spl_unclassified_section:
  Drug Facts
  Mfd for: Rugby Laboratories, Inc. Duluth, Georgia 30097
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Capsaicin 0.025%
purpose:
  Purpose External analgesic
indications_and_usage:
  Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to: simple backache arthritis strains sprains
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only Read all warnings and directions before use. Test first on small area of skin. Do not use on wounds or damaged skin if you are allergic to capsicum or chili peppers When using this product you may experience a burning sensation. The intensity of this reaction varies among individuals and may be severe. With regular use, this sensation generally disappears after several days. avoid contact with the eyes, lips, nose and mucous membranes do not tightly wrap or bandage the treated area do not apply heat to the treated area immediately before or after use Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after regular use severe burning persists or blistering occurs Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately.
do_not_use:
  For external use only Read all warnings and directions before use. Test first on small area of skin. Do not use on wounds or damaged skin if you are allergic to capsicum or chili peppers
when_using:
  When using this product you may experience a burning sensation. The intensity of this reaction varies among individuals and may be severe. With regular use, this sensation generally disappears after several days. avoid contact with the eyes, lips, nose and mucous membranes do not tightly wrap or bandage the treated area do not apply heat to the treated area immediately before or after use
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after regular use severe burning persists or blistering occurs
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately.
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions Adults and children 18 years of age and older: apply a thin film of cream to affected area and gently rub in until fully absorbed unless treating hands, wash hands thoroughly with soap and water immediately after application for best results, apply 3 to 4 times daily. Children under 18 years: ask a doctor
storage_and_handling:
  Other information store at room temperature 15° - 30°C (59° - 86°F)
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients acrylates/C10-30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer, cetyl acetate, methylparaben, PPG-20 methyl glucose ether distearate, propylene glycol, propylparaben, stearate-100, stearic acid, stearyl alcohol, triethanolamine, water
questions:
  Questions or comments? Call 1-800-645-2158 9 am - 5 pm ET, Monday - Friday
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL pdp
set_id:
  7d77048b-b0b2-9ef8-e053-2991aa0a6a8f
id:
  7d772113-5b4b-3465-e053-2991aa0a1687
effective_time:
  20181220
version:
  1
openfda:
