effective_time:
  20100421
inactive_ingredient:
  Ascorbic Acid (Crystallized Vitamin C), Eucalyptol, Purified Water, Rosemary Extract, Sea Salt, Vegetable Glycerin
purpose:
  Capsicum annuum........Relieves sinus and headache symptoms; relieves nasal congestion
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
warnings:
  For nasal use only. Upon initial use, you will experience a powerful sensation which lasts a few seconds. This sensation is inherent to the process that allows the capsaicin to work. Temporary discomfort such as burning, stinging, sneezing, or an increase in nasal discharge may result.
when_using:
  When using this product: Avoid contact with the eyes, In case of accidental contact with eyes, flush with water (and immediately seek professional help). The use of this container by more than one person may spread infection.
questions:
  Questions? Call 1-877-981-4328 Find us on the web at: www.BusterBrands.com
spl_product_data_elements:
  Sinus Buster Mild Formula Capsicum Annuum RED PEPPER RED PEPPER
ask_doctor:
  Ask a doctor before use if you have: ever had any medical procedures relating to your nose or sinuses, or you're susceptible to nose bleeds allergies to any of the ingredients.
openfda:
version:
  1
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions: Adults and children 12 years of age and older: use as needed at the first sign of symptoms. Pump 1-3 times in each nostril. Children under 12 years of age: Consult a doctor before use. To use pump: Shake well. Remove cap and safety clip. Hold with thumb at bottom of bottle and place nozzle between fingers. Before using the first time, prime pump by depressing several times. Insert nozzle into nostril and firmly depress rim. Sniff deeply.
pregnancy_or_breast_feeding:
  If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health care professional before use.
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask doctor if symptoms persist more than two weeks or worsen or if you experience dizziness or hear palpitations.
storage_and_handling:
  Store at room temperature 15-29 degrees C (59-84 degrees F) Retain carton for future reference on full labeling
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  100% Natural Chemical Free Non-drowsy No Known Drug Interactions Non-habit Forming Fast Relief Nasal Congestion Sinus Pressure and Headache reduced level of Capsaicin Pepper Made in the USA Not tested on Animals Distributed by: SiCap LLC Albany New York 12205 A wholly owned subsidiary of Dynova Laboratories www.BusterBrands.com Sinus Buster Mild Label
indications_and_usage:
  Uses: For the Temporary Relief of: Sinus Congestion Nasal Congestion Sinus Pressure and Headache
set_id:
  57a89eed-93eb-4875-a6f1-652796a38c7b
id:
  ad41861c-360a-495d-8993-c3ae590c98e3
