effective_time:
  20201209
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients carnauba wax, colloidal silicon dioxide, croscarmellose sodium, lactose (monohydrate), magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, polyethylene glycol, polyvinyl alcohol, talc, and titanium dioxide
purpose:
  Purpose Acid reducer
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222)
warnings:
  Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to famotidine or other acid reducers Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools. These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. • if you have kidney disease, except under the advice and supervision of a doctor • with other acid reducers Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition. • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating, or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222)
questions:
  Questions or comments? 1-800-719-9260
spl_product_data_elements:
  Smart Sense Famotidine Famotidine FAMOTIDINE FAMOTIDINE CARNAUBA WAX SILICON DIOXIDE CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE MAGNESIUM STEARATE MICROCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL, UNSPECIFIED POLYVINYL ALCOHOL, UNSPECIFIED TALC TITANIUM DIOXIDE L194
ask_doctor:
  Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition. • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating, or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain
openfda:
version:
  5
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions • adults and children 12 years and over: • to relieve symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water. Do not chew. • to prevent symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water at any time from 10 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • do not use more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years: ask a doctor
pregnancy_or_breast_feeding:
  If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use.
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days
storage_and_handling:
  Other information • read the directions and warnings before use • keep the carton. It contains important information. • store at 20°-25°C (68°-77°F) • protect from moisture and light
do_not_use:
  Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools. These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. • if you have kidney disease, except under the advice and supervision of a doctor • with other acid reducers
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Principal Display Panel COMPARE TO ACTIVE INGREDIENT IN MAXIMUM STRENGTH PEPCID® AC TABLETS ACTUAL SIZE MAXIMUM STRENGTH famotidine TABLETS 20 mg ACID REDUCER JUST ONE TABLET: prevents & relieves heartburn due to acid indigestion 25 TABLETS 20 mg EACH Smart Sense Famotidine Image 1 Smart Sense Famotidine Image 2
indications_and_usage:
  Uses • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain food and beverages
set_id:
  dd7e426a-b276-4a72-af57-83f052829934
id:
  d3e422f3-85d3-4847-beca-2eb66320b5a6
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient (in each tablet) Famotidine 20 mg
