effective_time:
  20191217
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients aloe vera gel, ceteareth-20, cetearyl alcohol, cetyl palmitate, glycerin, isopropyl myristate, isostearyl neopentanoate, methylparaben, purified water
purpose:
  Purpose Anti-itch
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222)
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge. Ask a doctor. • for the treatment of diaper rash. Ask a doctor. When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days, and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor • rectal bleeding occurs Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222)
when_using:
  When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator
questions:
  Questions or comments? 1-800-719-9260
spl_product_data_elements:
  Smart sense Hydrocortisone Hydrocortisone HYDROCORTISONE HYDROCORTISONE ALOE VERA LEAF POLYOXYL 20 CETOSTEARYL ETHER CETOSTEARYL ALCOHOL CETYL PALMITATE GLYCERIN ISOPROPYL MYRISTATE METHYLPARABEN WATER
openfda:
version:
  2
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions • for itching of skin irritation, inflammation, and rashes: • adults and children 2 years of age and older: apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age: do not use, ask a doctor • for external anal and genital itching, adults: • when practical, clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days, and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor • rectal bleeding occurs
storage_and_handling:
  Other information • store at 20°-25°C (68°-77°F)
do_not_use:
  Do not use • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge. Ask a doctor. • for the treatment of diaper rash. Ask a doctor.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Principal Display Panel Compare to the active ingredient of Cortizone-10 ® Cream Insect bites Rashes Skin irritation Eczema & Psoriasis Inflammation & redness Powerful Medicine, Fast Relief ANTI-ITCH CREAM Maximum Strength Hydrocortisone 1% NET WT 1 OZ (28 g) Smart sense Hydrocortisone 1% image 1. Smart sense Hydrocortisone 1% image 2
indications_and_usage:
  Uses • temporarily relieves itching associated with minor skin irritations, inflammation, and rashes due to: • eczema • psoriasis • poison ivy, oak, sumac • insect bites • detergents • jewelry • cosmetics • soaps • seborrheic dermatitis • temporarily relieves external anal and genital itching • other uses of this product should only be under the advice and supervision of a doctor
set_id:
  8997f53c-e721-4b8b-a2c4-ee4e76d0507b
id:
  06c762eb-b107-46b4-8368-3cb24751d160
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1%
