effective_time:
  20171218
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients alcohol SD 40-B, butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), isobutane, polyethylene glycol, polysorbate 20
purpose:
  Purpose Antifungal
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only Flammable: Do not use near flame or spark or while smoking. Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • contents under pressure. Do not puncture or incinerate or store at temperatures above 120°F (49°C). • use only as directed. Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal. Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • there is no improvement within 4 weeks Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
when_using:
  When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • contents under pressure. Do not puncture or incinerate or store at temperatures above 120°F (49°C). • use only as directed. Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal.
spl_product_data_elements:
  Sunmark athletes foot tolnaftate TOLNAFTATE TOLNAFTATE POLYETHYLENE GLYCOLS
openfda:
version:
  2
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions • clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • shake can well before use • hold can about 6 inches from the area to be treated • spray a thin layer over the affected area twice daily (morning and night) • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete’s foot, pay special attention to spaces between the toes. Wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily. • use daily for 4 weeks. If condition lasts longer, ask a doctor. • to prevent athlete’s foot, apply to the feet once or twice daily (morning and/or night) • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • there is no improvement within 4 weeks
do_not_use:
  Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Principal Display Panel Compare to Tinactin® Antifungal Liquid Spray Active Ingredient Athlete’s Foot Liquid Spray Tolnaftate 1% Antifungal Relieves Itching & Burning Cures & Prevents Most Athlete’s Foot Athlete's Foot Liquid Spray Label Athlete's Foot Liquid Spray Label Athlete's Foot Liquid Spray Label
indications_and_usage:
  Uses • proven clinically effective in the treatment of most • athlete’s foot (tinea pedis) • ringworm (tinea corporis) • effectively soothes and relieves • itching • burning • cracking • helps prevent most athlete’s foot from coming back with daily use
set_id:
  311e814b-b4a9-4969-94ed-c1702bb83060
id:
  6ae8b7d1-f48a-49b5-817d-e5262caaf350
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Tolnaftate 1%
