effective_time:
  20200713
inactive_ingredient:
  Bentonite, Cetyl Alcohol, Citric Acid, Glycerin, Glyceryl Stearate, Macadamia Integrifolia Seed Oil, Sodium Hydroxymethylglycinate, Sodium Stearoyl Lactylate, Water, Xanthan Gum.
purpose:
  Antiseptic
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get mecial help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. It is recommended you skin patch test prior to use.
warnings:
  For external use only. Do not use near the eyes, mouth, ears or other sensitive areas of the body or apply over large areas of the body longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor. Ask your doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition persists or gets worse. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get mecial help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. It is recommended you skin patch test prior to use.
when_using:
  It is recommended you skin patch test prior to use.
spl_product_data_elements:
  Tea Tree Antiseptic Cream Melaleuca Alternifolia (Tea Tree) Leaf Oil BENTONITE CETYL ALCOHOL CITRIC ACID MONOHYDRATE GLYCERIN GLYCERYL MONOSTEARATE MACADAMIA OIL SODIUM HYDROXYMETHYLGLYCINATE SODIUM STEAROYL LACTYLATE WATER XANTHAN GUM TEA TREE OIL TEA TREE OIL
description:
  MADE IN AUSTRALIA Manufactured for: Integria Healthcare (Australia) Pty Ltd., Building 5, Freeway Office Park, 2728 Logan Road, Eight Mile Plains, QLD 4113 Australia us.thursdayplantation.com Questions or Comments? 1-877-428-2567 Best Before and Batch # stamped in tube seal
ask_doctor:
  Ask your doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition persists or gets worse. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get mecial help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. It is recommended you skin patch test prior to use.
openfda:
version:
  6
dosage_and_administration:
  clean the affected area apply a small amount of this product on the area 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage.
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if condition persists or gets worse. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get mecial help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. It is recommended you skin patch test prior to use.
storage_and_handling:
  store below 86F/30C. Do not use if plastic seal around cap is broken or missing
do_not_use:
  Do not use near the eyes, mouth, ears or other sensitive areas of the body or apply over large areas of the body longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor. Ask your doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition persists or gets worse. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get mecial help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. It is recommended you skin patch test prior to use.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  NDC 70446-643-50 Thursday Plantation Australia's Original TEA TREE ANTISEPTIC CREAM Gently soothes and relieves minor skin irritations Net wt. 3.5 oz/100g TeaTreeCream
indications_and_usage:
  First aid to help protect against infection in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns.
set_id:
  c2284306-b740-49a3-90f9-3ec960321c81
id:
  aa5a7928-f9c6-813a-e053-2a95a90ae339
active_ingredient:
  Melaleuca Alternifolia (Tea Tree) Leaf Oil 5%
