spl_product_data_elements:
  The Root Of Goodness Healthy Growth Hair Regrowth System For Women 3 Step System MINOXIDIL The Root Of Goodness Women Extra Strength 2 Minoxidil MINOXIDIL ALCOHOL PROPYLENE GLYCOL WATER MINOXIDIL MINOXIDIL
spl_unclassified_section:
  Drug Facts
  Other information see hair loss pictures on side of this carton before use, read all information on carton and enclosed booklet keep the carton. It contains important information. In clinical studies of mostly white women aged 18-45 years with mild to moderate degrees of hair loss, the following response to 2% minoxidil topical solution was reported: 19% of women reported moderate hair regrowth after using 2% minoxidil topical solution for 8 months (19% had moderate regrowth; 40% had minimal regrowth). This compares with 7% of women reporting moderate hair regrowth after using the placebo, the liquid without minoxidil in it, for 8 months (7% had moderate regrowth; 33% had minimal regrowth). store at controlled room temperature 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F)
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Minoxidil 2% w/v Purpose Hair regrowth treatment
  Active ingredient Minoxidil 2% w/v
purpose:
  Purpose Hair regrowth treatment
indications_and_usage:
  Use to regrow hair on the scalp
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only Flammable: Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if your degree of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton, because this product may not work for you you have no family history of hair loss your hair loss is sudden and/or patchy your hair loss is associated with childbirth you do not know the reason for your hair loss you are under 18 years of age. Do not use on babies and children. your scalp is red, inflamed, infected, irritated, or painful you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product do not apply on other parts of the body avoid contact with the eyes. In case of accidental contact, rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water. some people have experienced changes in hair color and/or texture it takes time to regrow hair. You may need to use this product 2 times a day for at least 4 months before you see results. the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person. This product will not work for everyone. Stop use and ask a doctor if chest pain, rapid heartbeat, faintness, or dizziness occurs sudden, unexplained weight gain occurs your hands or feet swell scalp irritation or redness occurs unwanted facial hair growth occurs you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast-feeding. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
  Warnings For external use only Flammable: Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if you have no family history of hair loss your hair loss is sudden and/or patchy your hair loss is associated with childbirth you do not know the reason for your hair loss you are under 18 years of age. Do not use on babies and children. your scalp is red, inflamed, infected, irritated, or painful you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product do not apply on other parts of the body avoid contact with the eyes. In case of accidental contact, rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water. some people have experienced changes in hair color and/or texture Stop use and ask a doctor if chest pain, rapid heartbeat, faintness, or dizziness occurs sudden, unexplained weight gain occurs your hands or feet swell scalp irritation or redness occurs unwanted facial hair growth occurs May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast-feeding. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
do_not_use:
  Do not use if your degree of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton, because this product may not work for you you have no family history of hair loss your hair loss is sudden and/or patchy your hair loss is associated with childbirth you do not know the reason for your hair loss you are under 18 years of age. Do not use on babies and children. your scalp is red, inflamed, infected, irritated, or painful you use other medicines on the scalp
  Do not use if you have no family history of hair loss your hair loss is sudden and/or patchy your hair loss is associated with childbirth you do not know the reason for your hair loss you are under 18 years of age. Do not use on babies and children. your scalp is red, inflamed, infected, irritated, or painful you use other medicines on the scalp
ask_doctor_or_pharmacist:
  Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease
  Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease
when_using:
  When using this product do not apply on other parts of the body avoid contact with the eyes. In case of accidental contact, rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water. some people have experienced changes in hair color and/or texture it takes time to regrow hair. You may need to use this product 2 times a day for at least 4 months before you see results. the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person. This product will not work for everyone.
  When using this product do not apply on other parts of the body avoid contact with the eyes. In case of accidental contact, rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water. some people have experienced changes in hair color and/or texture
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if chest pain, rapid heartbeat, faintness, or dizziness occurs sudden, unexplained weight gain occurs your hands or feet swell scalp irritation or redness occurs unwanted facial hair growth occurs you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months
  Stop use and ask a doctor if chest pain, rapid heartbeat, faintness, or dizziness occurs sudden, unexplained weight gain occurs your hands or feet swell scalp irritation or redness occurs unwanted facial hair growth occurs
pregnancy_or_breast_feeding:
  May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast-feeding.
  May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast-feeding.
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions apply one mL with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area using more or more often will not improve results continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth, or hair loss will begin again
  Directions apply one mL 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area see inner carton and enclosed boklet for complete directions using more or more often will not improve results continued use is necessary or hair loss will begin again
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients alcohol, propylene glycol, purified water
  Inactive ingredients alcohol, propylene glycol, purified water
questions:
  Questions? call toll-free 833-445-6923 visit www.joycegiraud.com
  Questions? call toll-free 833-445-6923 or visit www.rogaine.com www.joycegiraud.com Store at Controlled Room Temperature 20º to 25ºC (68º to 77ºF)
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Package Labelling: Kit Kit Label.jpg
  Package Labelling: Label1.jpg Label2.jpg
  Label Box
set_id:
  2e19bf51-1769-4bc1-9232-9aa4b8df5847
id:
  288554e2-4edf-adee-e063-6394a90a5dab
effective_time:
  20241205
version:
  1
openfda:
  application_number:
    ANDA078176
  brand_name:
    The Root Of Goodness Healthy Growth Hair Regrowth System For Women 3 Step System
  generic_name:
    MINOXIDIL
  manufacturer_name:
    Invest Strong, LLC
  product_ndc:
    84828-569
  product_type:
    HUMAN OTC DRUG
  rxcui:
    311723
  spl_id:
    288554e2-4edf-adee-e063-6394a90a5dab
  spl_set_id:
    2e19bf51-1769-4bc1-9232-9aa4b8df5847
  package_ndc:
    84828-569-00
    84828-539-00
  is_original_packager:
    True
