effective_time:
  20191230
inactive_ingredient:
  ​Inactive Ingredients ​ ​Gelatin (Capsule)
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN If swallowed get medical assistance and contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) immediately.
purpose:
  ​Purpose ... ​Antiseptic Suffer from yeast infections or BV? Suffer no more. The Killer is your new go-to when infection or irritation hits down there. Made of medical-grade boric acid from a mineral found in sea water, these vaginal suppositories work FAST to bring your vaginal pH back to its normal state, relieving symptoms of a yeast or bv infection while they work their magic. Made on our FDA inspected facility and previously only avaiable with a prescription. The Killer is safe for your delicate areas. We lose to use them for spot treatments when things feel a little "off" down there in addition to full courses of treatment.
warnings:
  ​Warnings For vaginal use only Not for oral consumption Not for treatment of sexually transmitted infection Ask a doctor before use if pregnant or nursing Ask a doctor before use if you have vaginal bleeding, sores, ulcerations, fever, chills, sensitivity or pain in your lower abdomen or pelvis, a sexually transmitted infection, or suspect a sexually transmitted infection, or pelvic inflammatory disease. ​Stop use and ask a doctor ​if symptoms persist or worsen, or if you have a burning sensation or itching becomes worse. Avoid sexual intercourse when using this product. Using latex condoms during a course of treatment is not reccommended as it is unknown whether this product degrades the quality of a condom. Not to be used as a contraceptive or to treat sexually transmitted infections. ​KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN ​If swallowed get medical assistance and contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) immediately. KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN If swallowed get medical assistance and contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) immediately.
questions:
  ​LOVE WELLNESS One World Trade Center, Suite 8500 New York, NY 10007 800-319-2908 contact@lovewell.co
spl_product_data_elements:
  The Killer Boric Acid BORIC ACID BORIC ACID GELATIN
other_safety_information:
  ​Other information ​ • Tamper Evident ​DO NOT USE if blister is broken. • Store in a cool, dry place out of reach of children and pets
openfda:
version:
  2
dosage_and_administration:
  ​Directions Insert 1 suppository into vagina, preferably at bedtime. Use for 7 days of chronic irritation (and up to 14 days), or use as a spot treatment when needed.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  THE killer NDC 70892-001-02 LOVE WELLNESS THE Killer boric acid suppositories for quick relief of yeast infections and by symptoms 14 VAGINAL SUPPOSITORIES / 600 mg EACH ​Purpose ... ​Antiseptic Suffer from yeast infections or BV? Suffer no more. The Killer is your new go-to when infection or irritation hits down there. Made of medical-grade boric acid from a mineral found in sea water, these vaginal suppositories work FAST to bring your vaginal pH back to its normal state, relieving symptoms of a yeast or bv infection while they work their magic. Made on our FDA inspected facility and previously only avaiable with a prescription. The Killer is safe for your delicate areas. We lose to use them for spot treatments when things feel a little "off" down there in addition to full courses of treatment. Package Label
indications_and_usage:
  ​Uses Users report improvement in vaginal health and reduction of: • Vaginal irritation, discomfort, itch • Abnormal vaginal odor • Abnormal vaginal discharges Relieves symptoms of internal and external itching, irritation, burning, and discharge associated with vaginal yeast infections.
set_id:
  4d8aeba0-4848-4093-a723-1db50301d025
id:
  f18f66cd-ecbf-4aa3-9c74-3957ad847157
active_ingredient:
  ​Active ingredient (in each suppository) ​Boric Acid NF 600mg
