spl_product_data_elements:
  TLCUO Phytoncide Peroxy acetic acid PERACETIC ACID PERACETIC ACID Water LAVENDER OIL PEPPERMINT OIL CITRONELLA OIL
active_ingredient:
  ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active ingredients: Peroxy acetic acid 0.26%
inactive_ingredient:
  INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive ingredients: Lavenda Essential Oil, Peppermint Essential Oil, Citronella Essential Oil, Phytoncide Essential Oil, Cypress water, Water
purpose:
  PURPOSE Purpose: SANITIZER, ANTISEPTIC, Deodorant
warnings:
  WARNINGS Warnings: 1.Do not use the product on the following areas: Around the eyes and ears, in the mouth, large body parts and damaged skin(Irritation may occur) 2.If you experience any of the following symptoms, discontinue use of the product immediately and consult a physician or pharmacist. If symptoms such as rash, itching, edema, and skin irritation occur, please stop using it. 3.Other precautions 1) For external use only (do not swallow). 2) Avoid contact with eyes. If contact occurs, wash with clean water and consult a doctor or pharmacist. 3)Do not use in anal or vaginal areas as they may cause irritation. 4) Use only for the intended purposes. 4.Precautions for storage 1) Keep away from direct sunlight and do not expose the product to heating devices or flame. 2) Keep out of reach of children and go to the hospital immediately if swallowed. 3) After use, close the lid completely to prevent the product from drying or foreign objects from getting inside the container. 4) Storing the product in a different container may cause accidents or deterioration of quality. Therefore, keep the product in its original container.
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep out of reach of children and go to the hospital immediately if swallowed.
indications_and_usage:
  Uses Uses: Disinfection of Human’s hands and skin TLCUO, made of active peracetic acid,(PAA) is an effective sterilizing agent for bacillus, viruses, bacteria, etc. as well as odor removal for Human Body
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions Directions: Take an appropriate amount on your hands and rub thoroughly to dry. Rub evenly over areas of your hands or feet to dry naturally. For infants, the skin is weak and sensitive, preferably not to be used.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PACKAGE LABEL - TLCUO Phytoncide 60mL Image of bottle
  PACKAGE LABEL - TLCUO Phytoncide 500mL Image of bottle
set_id:
  e7cd7380-34e6-4e80-a396-9ae1a2fd4ad4
id:
  ec4c84be-bc0d-42fe-b4b4-a35efe41c8e5
effective_time:
  20200409
version:
  1
openfda:
