spl_product_data_elements:
  Tolnaftate Antifungal Athlete Foot Cream to Powder Tolnaftate ALOE VERA LEAF WATER CHLORPHENESIN POLYSORBATE 20 TOLNAFTATE TOLNAFTATE PHENOXYETHANOL DIMETHICONOL (250000 MW) MELALEUCA ALTERNIFOLIA LEAF PROPANEDIOL POTASSIUM SORBATE ALLANTOIN ALUMINUM STARCH OCTENYLSUCCINATE CAPRYLYL GLYCOL
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Tolnaftate 1%
purpose:
  Purpose Antifungal
indications_and_usage:
  Uses proven clinically effective in the treatment of athlete's foot (tinea pedis) and ringworm (tinea corporis) prevents the recurrences of athlete's foot with daily use for effective relief of itching, burning, cracking, redness and scaling
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only. Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor. When using this product avoid contact with eyes. Stop use and consult a doctor if irritation occurs there is no improvement in 4 weeks Keep out of reach of children. If accidental ingestion occurs, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
do_not_use:
  Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor.
when_using:
  When using this product avoid contact with eyes.
stop_use:
  Stop use and consult a doctor if irritation occurs there is no improvement in 4 weeks
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If accidental ingestion occurs, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions Read all warnings and directions. Use only as directed. clean the affected area and dry thoroughly apply a thin layer of the product over the affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a doctor supervise children in the use of this product for athlete's foot: pay special attention to spaces between the toes; wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily for athlete's foot and ringworm, use daily for 4 weeks if condition persists longer, consult a doctor to prevent athlete's foot: wash the feet thoroughly; apply a thin layer of the product to the feet once or twice daily (morning and/or night) this product is not effective on the scalp or nails
other_safety_information:
  Other information store at room temperature 15° - 30°C (59°-86°F)
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients Allantoin, Alo Barbadensis Leaf Extract, Aluminum Starch Octenylsuccinate, Caprylyl Glycol, Carbomer, Chlorophenesin, Cyclohexasiloxane, Cyclopentasiloxane, Dimethiconol, Disodium EDTA, Melaleuca Altennifolia (Tea Tree) Leaf Oil, Fragrance, Phenoxyethanol, Polysorbate 20, Potassium Sorbate, Propanediol, Tocopheryl Acetate, Triethanolamine, Water
questions:
  Questions? Call 1-866-964-0939
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Principal Display Panel CVS Health Antifungal Athlete's Foot Cream to Powder TOLNAFTATE 1% Dries to a smooth powdery finish Cures & prevents most athlete's foot Relieves itching, burning & cracking NET WT 0.5 OZ (15 g) NET WT 1 OZ (30 g) 0.5 tolnaftate 2 0.5 tolnaftate 1 1 tolnaftate 1 1 tolnaftate 2
set_id:
  b44f4559-1110-2e3c-e053-2a95a90a0e90
id:
  29b8f041-d12f-74ca-e063-6394a90a9ccd
effective_time:
  20241220
version:
  6
openfda:
