effective_time:
  20170706
inactive_ingredient:
  INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive ingredient : Polyisobutylene, Petroleum resin, Stylene Isoprene Stylene block copolymer, Polyurethane Film, Tetrakis methane, Liquid Paraffin
purpose:
  PURPOSE PURPOSE : Protecting wounds
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN
warnings:
  WARNINGS Warning : 1. Apply the product to a slightly bigger than the affected area. 2. Do not use on children younger than three years old since the product has to be left on skin for a long time and has strong adhesion. 3. Do not use for patients with healing disorders, such as wounds with heavy bleeding, infected wounds, patients with diabetes or blood circulation diseases. ※What are the symptoms of infection? Symptoms of infection include unclear fluid from the wound, when redness, swelling, pain increases, and when a foul smell continues even after washing the affected area. 4. Please consult a physician for the following symptoms: - When the affected area feels warm or swells with redness. - If you have allergies or sensitive skin, consult a physician or a pharmacist before using the product. - If the wound doesn’t heal within four days. 5. This product is for one-time use. Do not reuse. If the packaging is damaged or open, sterilizing is not guaranteed. Use immediately upon opening the product, make sure to close the packaging after use. Do not use if the packaging is damaged.
spl_product_data_elements:
  Trouble Clear Spot CARBOXYMETHYLCELLULOSE SODIUM CARBOXYMETHYLCELLULOSE SODIUM CARBOXYMETHYLCELLULOSE MINERAL OIL
other_safety_information:
  Other information Other information: sealed packaging, store at room temperature (1~30℃)
openfda:
version:
  2
dosage_and_administration:
  DIRECTIONS DIRECTIONS: Thoroughly cleanse the wound then completely dry the affected area. Do not apply any ointment, apply the product to an area slightly bigger that the affected area. The product absorbs exudation, heals the wound and the swelling goes down as the wound heals. Do not replace the product frequently so it can absorb exudation from the wound. Replace the product once a day, or more than once a day, until the wound is healed and the swelling goes down. Directions for removing the product Hold the tip of the product, and gently pull the product parallel to the surface. If you remove the product forcefully, you may damage the renewed skin cells. If you cannot remove the product easily, apply warm water to soften the product then gently remove.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PACKAGE LABEL.PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Image of carton
indications_and_usage:
  USE USE : Thoroughly rinse the affected area with water. Remove the film from the back of the product then apply the product to the affected area. Replace the product when the product swells because of exudation from the wound. Replace the product once a day, or more than once a day.
set_id:
  598b6d60-c6c2-45a6-b798-7631a2311bc5
id:
  b8e634b6-f48a-4a2f-82a0-c71505d8c50c
active_ingredient:
  ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active ingredient : Cellulose Gum 35.9%
