spl_product_data_elements:
  Urea 40 Percent Urea GLYCERIN CARBOMER HOMOPOLYMER, UNSPECIFIED TYPE CETYL ALCOHOL WHITE PETROLATUM MINERAL OIL WATER GLYCERYL STEARATE SE UREA UREA structure
description:
  DESCRIPTION: INGREDIENTS: Each gram of Urea Cream 40% contains Urea 40% and the following inactive ingredients: Carbomer, Cetearyl Alcohol, Glycerin, Glyceryl Stearate SE, Mineral Oil, Purified Water, White Petrolatum.
clinical_pharmacology:
  CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Urea gently dissolves the intercellular matrix which results in loosening the horny layer of skin and shedding scaly skin at regular intervals, thereby softening hyperkeratotic areas of the skin. Pharmacokinetics: The mechanism of action of topically applied urea is not yet known.
pharmacokinetics:
  Pharmacokinetics: The mechanism of action of topically applied urea is not yet known.
indications_and_usage:
  INDICATIONS: This product is useful for the treatment of hyperkeratotic conditions such as dry, rough skin, xerosis, ichthyosis, skin cracks and fissures, dermatitis, eczema, psoriasis, keratoses and calluses.
contraindications:
  CONTRAINDICATIONS: This product is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of the product.
warnings:
  WARNINGS: FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY. NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE. KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN. Avoid contact with eyes, lips and mucous membranes. General: This product is to be used as directed by a physician and should not be used to treat any condition other than that for which it was prescribed. If redness or irritation occurs, discontinue use and consult a physician. Information for Patients: Patients should discontinue the use of this product if the condition becomes worse or if a rash develops in the area being treated or elsewhere. Avoid contact with eyes, lips and mucous membranes. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility: Long-term animal studies for carcinogenic potential have not been performed on this product to date. Studies on reproduction and fertility also have not been performed. Pregnancy: Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this product. It is also not known whether this product can affect reproduction capacity or cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. This product should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed or when potential benefits outweigh potential hazards to the fetus. Nursing Mothers: It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk, caution should be exercised when this product is administered to a nursing woman.
general_precautions:
  General: This product is to be used as directed by a physician and should not be used to treat any condition other than that for which it was prescribed. If redness or irritation occurs, discontinue use and consult a physician.
information_for_patients:
  Information for Patients: Patients should discontinue the use of this product if the condition becomes worse or if a rash develops in the area being treated or elsewhere. Avoid contact with eyes, lips and mucous membranes.
carcinogenesis_and_mutagenesis_and_impairment_of_fertility:
  Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility: Long-term animal studies for carcinogenic potential have not been performed on this product to date. Studies on reproduction and fertility also have not been performed.
pregnancy:
  Pregnancy: Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this product. It is also not known whether this product can affect reproduction capacity or cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. This product should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed or when potential benefits outweigh potential hazards to the fetus.
nursing_mothers:
  Nursing Mothers: It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk, caution should be exercised when this product is administered to a nursing woman.
adverse_reactions:
  ADVERSE REACTIONS: Transient stinging, burning, itching or irritation may occur and normally disappear upon discontinuing the use of this product.
dosage_and_administration:
  DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Use as directed by your physician. See label booklet for full Prescribing Information.
safe_handling_warning:
  STORAGE: Store at room temperature 15°C-30°C (59°F-86°F). Protect from freezing. Keep bottle tightly closed.
how_supplied:
  HOW SUPPLIED: Urea Cream 40% This product is supplied in the following size: 3 oz NDC 63629-9266-1 Repackaged/Relabeled by: Bryant Ranch Prepack, Inc. Burbank, CA 91504
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Urea Cream 40% Label
set_id:
  2be06d4b-95a9-4d00-bf97-5d8dc48c3bc8
id:
  9bc50a3d-3401-4e09-b651-afc79a2c8a07
effective_time:
  20240925
version:
  103
openfda:
