effective_time:
  20180412
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients alcohol 78%, cedarleaf oil, eucalyptus oil, laureth-7, menthol, nutmeg oil, poloxamer 124, silicone
purpose:
  Purpose Cough suppressant
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. In case of eye exposure (flush eyes with water); or in case of accidental ingestion, seek medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only. Flammable. Keep away from fire or flame. For steam inhalation only. Ask a doctor before use if you have a persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, emphysema or asthma cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) When using this product, do not heat microwave use near an open flame take by mouth direct steam from the vaporizer too close to the face add to hot water or any container where heating water except when adding to cold water only in a hot steam vaporizer. May cause splattering and result in burns. Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or occurs with fever, rash, or headache that lasts. These could be signs of a serious condition. Keep out of reach of children. In case of eye exposure (flush eyes with water); or in case of accidental ingestion, seek medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
when_using:
  When using this product, do not heat microwave use near an open flame take by mouth direct steam from the vaporizer too close to the face add to hot water or any container where heating water except when adding to cold water only in a hot steam vaporizer. May cause splattering and result in burns.
questions:
  Questions? 1-800-873-8276
spl_product_data_elements:
  Vicks VapoSteam camphor (synthetic) ALCOHOL CEDAR LEAF OIL EUCALYPTUS OIL LAURETH-7 MENTHOL NUTMEG OIL POLOXAMER 124 CAMPHOR (SYNTHETIC) CAMPHOR (SYNTHETIC)
ask_doctor:
  Ask a doctor before use if you have a persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, emphysema or asthma cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus)
openfda:
version:
  3
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions see important warnings under " When using this product " adults & children 2 years & over: use 1 tablespoon of solution for each quart of water or 1½ teaspoons of solution for each pint of water add solution directly to cold water only in a hot steam vaporizer follow manufacturer's directions for using vaporizer breathe in medicated vapors may be repeated up to 3 times a day children under 2 years: do not use
spl_unclassified_section:
  Drug Facts
  Dist. by Procter & Gamble, Cincinnati OH 45202.
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or occurs with fever, rash, or headache that lasts. These could be signs of a serious condition.
storage_and_handling:
  Other information close container tightly and store at room temperature away from heat
do_not_use:
  For external use only. Flammable. Keep away from fire or flame. For steam inhalation only.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 236 ml Bottle Carton VICKS ® Vapo Steam ® LIQUID MEDICATION FOR HOT STEAM VAPORIZERS Cough Suppressant Camphor Increases the action of steam to relieve coughs from colds See Drug Facts 8 FL OZ (236 ml) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 236 ml Bottle Carton
indications_and_usage:
  Use temporarily relieves cough associated with a cold
set_id:
  196a38e2-efe5-4fc8-a5bd-eb9e9f07ba8b
id:
  69a72486-d1a2-8b1c-e053-2991aa0a1de4
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Camphor 6.2%
