effective_time:
  20110219
drug_interactions:
  Drug Interactions Do not prescribe VisRx for use in patients that are now taking prescription MAOIs (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 14 days after stopping MAOI drug therapy. Beta-adrenergic blockers and MAOIs may potentiate the pressor effect of pseudoephedrine HCl. Concurrent use of digitalis glycosides may increase the possibility of cardiac arrhythmias. Sympathomimetics may reduce the hypotensive effects of guanethidine, mecamylamine, methyldopa, reserpine and veratrum alkaloids. Concurrent use of pseudoephedrine HCl with other sympathomimetic amines may increase pressor or cardiovascular effects of either medication. The use of pseudoephedrine HCl may result in additive CNS depressant effects when coadministered with alcohol, antihistamines, psychotropics, or other drugs which produce CNS depression. Concurrent use of tricyclic antidepressants may antagonize the effects of pseudoephedrine HCl. Additive anticholinergic effects may result from concomitant use with antipsychotics, tricyclic antidepressants, and other drugs with anticholinergic effects. Concomitant administration with antacids may interfere with the absorption of methscopolamine nitrate.
geriatric_use:
  Geriatric Use The elderly (60 years and older) are more likely to experience adverse reactions to sympathomimetics. Overdosage of sympathomimetics in this age group may cause hallucinations, convulsions, CNS depression, and/or death. Pseudoephedrine HCl is known to be substantially excreted by the kidneys and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to monitor renal function.
precautions:
  PRECAUTIONS General VisRx should be used with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus, hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and hyperactivity to sympathomimetic amines. Antihistamines may cause drowsiness, and ambulatory patients who operate machinery or motor vehicles should be cautioned accordingly. Methscopolamine nitrate should be used with caution in the elderly and all patients with autonomic neuropathy, hepatic or renal disease, or ulcerative colitis. Drug Interactions Do not prescribe VisRx for use in patients that are now taking prescription MAOIs (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 14 days after stopping MAOI drug therapy. Beta-adrenergic blockers and MAOIs may potentiate the pressor effect of pseudoephedrine HCl. Concurrent use of digitalis glycosides may increase the possibility of cardiac arrhythmias. Sympathomimetics may reduce the hypotensive effects of guanethidine, mecamylamine, methyldopa, reserpine and veratrum alkaloids. Concurrent use of pseudoephedrine HCl with other sympathomimetic amines may increase pressor or cardiovascular effects of either medication. The use of pseudoephedrine HCl may result in additive CNS depressant effects when coadministered with alcohol, antihistamines, psychotropics, or other drugs which produce CNS depression. Concurrent use of tricyclic antidepressants may antagonize the effects of pseudoephedrine HCl. Additive anticholinergic effects may result from concomitant use with antipsychotics, tricyclic antidepressants, and other drugs with anticholinergic effects. Concomitant administration with antacids may interfere with the absorption of methscopolamine nitrate. Carcinogenesis,Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Animal studies to assess the long-term carcinogenic and mutagenic potential or the effect on fertility in animals or humans have not been performed. Pregnancy: Category C It is not known whether VisRx can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. VisRx should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed. Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this combination drug is excreted in human milk. However, pseudoephedrine HCl administered alone distributes into the breast milk of lactating human females; therefore, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother. Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness in children under 12 years of age have not been established. Geriatric Use The elderly (60 years and older) are more likely to experience adverse reactions to sympathomimetics. Overdosage of sympathomimetics in this age group may cause hallucinations, convulsions, CNS depression, and/or death. Pseudoephedrine HCl is known to be substantially excreted by the kidneys and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to monitor renal function. ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions include drowsiness, lassitude, nausea, giddiness, dryness of mouth, blurred vision, cardiac palpitations, flushing, and increased irritability or excitement (especially in children). Some individuals may display sympathomimetic amine effects such as tachycardia, palpitations, headache, dizziness, or nausea. Sympathomimetics have been associated with certain untoward reactions including fear, anxiety, nervousness, restlessness, tremor, weakness, pallor, respiratory difficulty, dysuria, insomnia, hallucinations, convulsions, CNS depression, arrhythmias, and cardiovascular collapse with hypotension. Urinary retention may occur in patients with prostatic hypertrophy. Antihistamines and anticholinergics may cause drowsiness, dizziness, blurred vision, and excessive dryness of the nose, throat, and mouth. DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Rebound congestion may occur after vasoconstriction subsides when pseudoephedrine HCl is discontinued. Patients may increase the amount of drug and frequency of use, producing toxicity and perpetuating the rebound congestion. Excessive use may cause systemic effects which are more likely in the elderly. Habituation and toxic psychosis have followed long-term, high-dose therapy. OVERDOSAGE AND TREATMENT OF OVERDOSAGE The treatment of overdosage should provide symptomatic and supportive care. Induction of emesis and gastric lavage may be performed if the patient is alert and seen within early hours after ingestion. Drug remaining in the stomach may be absorbed by the administration of activated charcoal. Stimulants should not be used because they may precipitate convulsions. If convulsions or marked CNS excitement occurs, treatment with appropriate measures is indicated. Since the effects of VisRx last up to 12 hours, the patient should be monitored for at least that length of time and treated as necessary. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and children 12 years of age and over: One White AM tablet in the morning and one Green PM tablet in the evening. VisRx is not recommended for children under 12 years of age.
description:
  DESCRIPTION Each White AM tablet contains: Each Green PM tablet contains: Pseudoephedrine HCl .......................... 120mg Chlorpheniramine Maleate ....................... 8mg Methscopolamine Nitrate ...................... 2.5mg Methscopolamine Nitrate ...................... 2.5mg Chlorpheniramine maleate is an antihistamine having the chemical name 2-pyridinepropanamine, gamma-(4 chlorophenyl)-N, N-dimethyl-, (Z)-2-butenedioate (1:1).; C 16 H 19 ClN2•C 4 H 4 O 4 , MW = 390.86. Pseudoephedrine hydrochloride is a nasal decongestant. Chemically it is [S-(R*,R*)]-α-[1(methylamino) ethyl]-benzenemethanol hydrochloride; C 10 H 15 NO•HCl, MW = 201.7. Methscopolamine nitrate is an anticholinergic having the chemical name 3-oxa-9-azoniatricyclo [3.3.1.0 2 4] nonane, 7-(3-hydroxy-1-oxo-2-phenylpropoxy)-9, 9-dimethyl-, nitrate, [7(S)-(1α, 2β,4β, 5α, 7β)]; C 17 H 21 NO 4 •CH 3 NO 3 , MW = 380.4. Chemical Structure Chemical Structure Chemical Structure Inactive Ingredients Each white tablet contains: dicalcium phosphate, hydrogenated cottonseed oil, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, stearic acid, silicon dioxide, and magnesium stearate. Each green tablet contains: calcium phosphate, hydrogenated cottonseed oil, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, stearic acid, magnesium stearate, silicon dioxide, hydroxypropyl cellulose, D & C yellow lake # 10, FD & C blue lake #1.
general_precautions:
  General VisRx should be used with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus, hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and hyperactivity to sympathomimetic amines. Antihistamines may cause drowsiness, and ambulatory patients who operate machinery or motor vehicles should be cautioned accordingly. Methscopolamine nitrate should be used with caution in the elderly and all patients with autonomic neuropathy, hepatic or renal disease, or ulcerative colitis.
indications_and_usage:
  INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the temporary relief of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis, vasomotor rhinitis, and the common cold.
set_id:
  f3f65d3c-e820-47d6-ade9-c3b82f7f3bde
id:
  a428ddeb-b4fc-477d-8b0e-e3b92d7ce7fc
description_table:
  <table ID="c61d3286-99a7-4ae6-b7a6-f6b9ea7afb7f" width="60%"> <colgroup> <col/> <col/> <col/> <col/> </colgroup> <tbody> <tr styleCode="Botrule"> <td align="justify" valign="top"> Each White AM tablet contains: </td> <td align="justify" valign="top"> Each Green PM tablet contains: </td> <td align="justify" valign="top"/> </tr> <tr> <td align="justify" valign="top"> Pseudoephedrine HCl .......................... 120mg</td> <td align="justify" valign="top"> Chlorpheniramine Maleate ....................... 8mg</td> <td align="justify" valign="top"/> </tr> <tr> <td align="justify" valign="top"> Methscopolamine Nitrate ...................... 2.5mg</td> <td align="justify" valign="top"> Methscopolamine Nitrate ...................... 2.5mg</td> <td align="justify" valign="top"/> </tr> </tbody> </table>
pediatric_use:
  Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness in children under 12 years of age have not been established.
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive Ingredients Each white tablet contains: dicalcium phosphate, hydrogenated cottonseed oil, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, stearic acid, silicon dioxide, and magnesium stearate. Each green tablet contains: calcium phosphate, hydrogenated cottonseed oil, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, stearic acid, magnesium stearate, silicon dioxide, hydroxypropyl cellulose, D & C yellow lake # 10, FD & C blue lake #1.
contraindications:
  CONTRAINDICATIONS VisRx is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to pseudoephedrine HCl, methscopolamine nitrate, and chlorpheniramine maleate. Also, VisRx is contraindicated in patients with severe hypertension, severe coronary artery disease, patients on monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) therapy or within 14 days of stopping monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) therapy, and in nursing mothers. VisRx is also contraindicated in patients with narrow-angle glaucoma, urinary retention, peptic ulcer, and during an asthmatic attack.
drug_abuse_and_dependence:
  DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Rebound congestion may occur after vasoconstriction subsides when pseudoephedrine HCl is discontinued. Patients may increase the amount of drug and frequency of use, producing toxicity and perpetuating the rebound congestion. Excessive use may cause systemic effects which are more likely in the elderly. Habituation and toxic psychosis have followed long-term, high-dose therapy.
warnings:
  WARNINGS Sympathomimetic amines should be used cautiously in patients with hypertension, diabetes mellitus, ischemic heart disease, hyperthyroidism, increased intraocular pressure, and prostatic hypertrophy. Sympathomimetics may produce central nervous system stimulation with convulsions or cardiovascular collapse with accompanying hypotension. The elderly (60 years or older) are more likely to exhibit adverse reactions. Antihistamines may cause excitability, especially in children. At dosages higher than the recommended dose, nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness may occur. Do not exceed recommended dosage. Hypertensive crisis can occur with concurrent use of pseudoephedrine HCl and MAOI, and for 14 days after stopping therapy. Methscopolamine nitrate may produce drowsiness or blurred vision. The patient should be cautioned regarding activities requiring mental alertness such as operating a motor vehicle or performing hazardous work while taking VisRx. Co-administration of sildenafil citrate and other organic nitrates has been shown to potentiate the hypotension effects of nitrates. Co-administration of VisRx and sildenafil citrate has not been studied. Therefore, the use of sildenafil citrate and VisRx together is not recommended.
pregnancy:
  Pregnancy: Category C It is not known whether VisRx can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. VisRx should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed.
nursing_mothers:
  Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this combination drug is excreted in human milk. However, pseudoephedrine HCl administered alone distributes into the breast milk of lactating human females; therefore, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother.
spl_product_data_elements:
  VisRx Dose Pack pseudoephedrine, methscopolamine, and chlorpheniramine VisRx White AM Controlled Release pseudoephedrine hydrochloride and methscopolamine nitrate PSEUDOEPHEDRINE HYDROCHLORIDE PSEUDOEPHEDRINE METHSCOPOLAMINE NITRATE METHSCOPOLAMINE Tablet VP;7 VisRx Green PM Controlled Release chlorpheniramine maleate and methscopolamine nitrate CHLORPHENIRAMINE MALEATE CHLORPHENIRAMINE METHSCOPOLAMINE NITRATE METHSCOPOLAMINE Tablet VP;6
openfda:
version:
  3
dosage_and_administration:
  DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and children 12 years of age and over: One White AM tablet in the morning and one Green PM tablet in the evening. VisRx is not recommended for children under 12 years of age.
adverse_reactions:
  ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions include drowsiness, lassitude, nausea, giddiness, dryness of mouth, blurred vision, cardiac palpitations, flushing, and increased irritability or excitement (especially in children). Some individuals may display sympathomimetic amine effects such as tachycardia, palpitations, headache, dizziness, or nausea. Sympathomimetics have been associated with certain untoward reactions including fear, anxiety, nervousness, restlessness, tremor, weakness, pallor, respiratory difficulty, dysuria, insomnia, hallucinations, convulsions, CNS depression, arrhythmias, and cardiovascular collapse with hypotension. Urinary retention may occur in patients with prostatic hypertrophy. Antihistamines and anticholinergics may cause drowsiness, dizziness, blurred vision, and excessive dryness of the nose, throat, and mouth.
how_supplied:
  HOW SUPPLIED VisRx Dose Pack 10 (NDC 68013-014-20), containing 20 controlled-release tablets in one (1) blister card as follows: 10 White AM, oval tablets with “VP” scored “7” on one side and plain on the other side, each containing 120 mg of pseudoephedrine HCl and 2.5 mg of methscopolamine nitrate. 10 Green PM, oval tablets with “VP” scored “6” on one side and plain on the other side, each containing 8 mg of chlorpheniramine maleate and 2.5 mg of methscopolamine nitrate. VisRx Dose Pack 30 (NDC 68013-014-60), containing 60 controlled-release tablets in three (3) blister card as follows: 30 White AM, oval tablets with “VP” scored “7” on one side and plain on the other side, each containing 120 mg of pseudoephedrine HCl and 2.5 mg of methscopolamine nitrate. 30 Green PM, oval tablets with “VP” scored “6” on one side and plain on the other side, each containing 8 mg of chlorpheniramine maleate and 2.5 mg of methscopolamine nitrate. Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children. Store at 20-25°C (68°-77°F) excursions permitted to 15°-30°C (59°-86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature] Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. Manufactured for: Vision Pharma, LLC Estero, FL 33928 www.visionpharma.com By: Nexgen Pharma, Inc. 17802 Gillette Avenue Irvine, CA 92614
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PACKAGE DISPLAY VisRx Dose Pack 10 Blister Pack Display NDC 68013-014-20 VisRx Dose Pack 10 Each Complete Dose Pack Contains 10 white tablets and 10 green tablets. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. Store at controlled room temperature between 20°- 25° C (68°- 77° F). VisRx Dose Pack 30 Blister Pack Display NDC 68013-014-60 VisRx Dose Pack 30 Each Complete Dose Pack Contains 30 white tablets and 30 green tablets. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. Store at controlled room temperature between 20°- 25° C (68°- 77° F). Display VisRx Dose Pack 10 Blister Pack Display Display VisRx Dose Pack 30 Blister Pack Display
clinical_pharmacology:
  CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pseudoephedrine HCl is an indirect-acting sympathomimetic amine that exerts a decongestant action on the nasal mucosa. It does this by vasoconstriction, which results in reduction of tissue hyperemia, edema, nasal congestion, and an increase in nasal airway patency. In the usual dose it has minimal vasopressor effects. Pseudoephedrine HCl is rapidly and almost completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. It has a plasma half-life of 6 to 8 hours. Alkaline urine is associated with slower elimination of the drug. The drug is distributed to the body tissues and fluids, including the central nervous system (CNS). Approximately 50% to 75% of the administered dose is excreted unchanged in the urine; the remainder is apparently metabolized in the liver to inactive compounds by N-demethylation, parahydroxylation, and oxidative deamination.e Chlorpheniramine maleate is an alkylamine-type antihistamine. This group of antihistamines is among the most active histamine antagonists and is generally effective in relatively low doses. Methscopolamine nitrate is a quaternary ammonium derivative of the anticholinergic scopolamine. As a class, these agents are poorly and unreliably absorbed. Methscopolamine nitrate has limited ability to cross the blood-brain barrier. Its antimuscarinic effect causes inhibition of salivary secretions, reduction in volume and total acid content of gastric secretion, and inhibition of gastrointestinal motility. Drug effects appear in about one hour and persist for about 4 to 6 hours. It is excreted primarily in the urine and bile, or as unabsorbed drug in feces.
carcinogenesis_and_mutagenesis_and_impairment_of_fertility:
  Carcinogenesis,Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Animal studies to assess the long-term carcinogenic and mutagenic potential or the effect on fertility in animals or humans have not been performed.
overdosage:
  OVERDOSAGE AND TREATMENT OF OVERDOSAGE The treatment of overdosage should provide symptomatic and supportive care. Induction of emesis and gastric lavage may be performed if the patient is alert and seen within early hours after ingestion. Drug remaining in the stomach may be absorbed by the administration of activated charcoal. Stimulants should not be used because they may precipitate convulsions. If convulsions or marked CNS excitement occurs, treatment with appropriate measures is indicated. Since the effects of VisRx last up to 12 hours, the patient should be monitored for at least that length of time and treated as necessary.
