effective_time:
  20110620
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients Benzyl Alcohol, Cetyl Alcohol, Glyceryl Stearate, Isopropyl Myristate, PEG-100 Stearate, Purified Water, Sorbitol Solution & White Petrolatum.
purpose:
  Purpose Topical Analgesic
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately.
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only. Do not apply to wounds or to damaged or irritated skin. When using this product you may experience a burning sensation which is normal and related to the way the product works. With regular use, this sensation generally disappears within several days. Avoid contact with eyes. Do not get it on mucous membranes, into eyes, or on contact lenses. If this occurs, rinse the affected area thoroughly with water. do not apply immediately before or after activities such as bathing, swimming, sun bathing or strenuous exercise do not apply heat to the treated areas immediately before or after use do not tightly wrap or bandage the treated area avoid inhaling airborne material from dried residue. This can result in coughing, sneezing, tearing, throat, or respiratory irritation. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens, or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days blistering occurs difficulty breathing or swallowing occurs severe burning persists Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately.
when_using:
  When using this product you may experience a burning sensation which is normal and related to the way the product works. With regular use, this sensation generally disappears within several days. Avoid contact with eyes. Do not get it on mucous membranes, into eyes, or on contact lenses. If this occurs, rinse the affected area thoroughly with water. do not apply immediately before or after activities such as bathing, swimming, sun bathing or strenuous exercise do not apply heat to the treated areas immediately before or after use do not tightly wrap or bandage the treated area avoid inhaling airborne material from dried residue. This can result in coughing, sneezing, tearing, throat, or respiratory irritation.
questions:
  Questions or Comments? Call: 1-800-899-3116 , Mon. - Thurs 9:00 am - 5:00 pm EST, Fri. 9:00 am - 2:30 pm EST. Serious side effects associated with the use of this product may be reported to this number. Rev. 448:00 01/10
spl_product_data_elements:
  ZOSTRIX FOOT PAIN RELIEF MAXIMUM STRENGTH Capsaicin CAPSAICIN CAPSAICIN ISOPROPYL MYRISTATE WATER SORBITOL CETYL ALCOHOL PETROLATUM GLYCERYL MONOSTEARATE PEG-100 STEARATE BENZYL ALCOHOL
openfda:
version:
  2
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions for persons under 18 years of age, ask a doctor before using apply a thin film of cream (about the size of a pea or chocolate chip) to the applicator pad and gently rub in until fully absorbed. Discard applicator pad after use. for optimum relief, apply 3 to 4 times daily best results typically occur after 2 to 4 weeks of continuous use wash hands thoroughly with soap and water immediately after use see package insert for more information
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens, or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days blistering occurs difficulty breathing or swallowing occurs severe burning persists
spl_unclassified_section:
  Other information Store at 15° - 30°C (59° - 86°F).
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Package/Label Principal Display Panel NDC 61787-448-02 Capsaicin 0.075% ZOSTRIX ® FOOT PAIN RELIEF CREAM MAXIMUM STRENGTH NET WT. 2.0 OZ (56.6g.) Odor free. For best results, apply only a pea-sized amount but apply regularly - up to 3-4 times daily. Image of Tube
indications_and_usage:
  Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of the muscle joints associated with arthritis strains sprains bruises
set_id:
  9ffee16d-734f-4e47-9c5a-af67793b6adb
id:
  4e47a857-6b56-4d1d-8558-45d651bb26b0
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Capsaicin 0.075%
