Drug: Advair
OpenFDA brand names: ADVAIR DISKUS
Drug ID: advair
Generic name: FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE AND SALMETEROL
Manufacturer: A-S Medication Solutions
NDC: 50090-4505
Application number: NDA021077
RxCUI: 896228, 896229
Route: RESPIRATORY (INHALATION)
Pharmacologic class: unknown
Source: openFDA drug label

## Indications and usage
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ADVAIR DISKUS is a combination product containing a corticosteroid and a long-acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonist (LABA) indicated for: • Twice-daily treatment of asthma in patients aged 4 years and older. ( 1.1 ) • Maintenance treatment of airflow obstruction and reducing exacerbations in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). ( 1.2 ) Important limitation of use: Not indicated for relief of acute bronchospasm. ( 1.1 , 1.2 ) 1.1 Treatment of Asthma ADVAIR DISKUS is indicated for the twice-daily treatment of asthma in patients aged 4 years and older. ADVAIR DISKUS should be used for patients not adequately controlled on a long-term asthma control medication such as an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) or whose disease warrants initiation of treatment with both an ICS and long-acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonist (LABA). Important Limitation of Use ADVAIR DISKUS is NOT indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm. 1.2 Maintenance Treatment of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 is indicated for the twice-daily maintenance treatment of airflow obstruction in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including chronic bronchitis and/or emphysema. ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 is also indicated to reduce exacerbations of COPD in patients with a history of exacerbations. ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 twice daily is the only approved dosage for the treatment of COPD because an efficacy advantage of the higher strength ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 over ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 has not been demonstrated. Important Limitation of Use ADVAIR DISKUS is NOT indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm.

## Dosage and administration
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ADVAIR DISKUS should be administered as 1 inhalation twice daily by the orally inhaled route only. After inhalation, the patient should rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing to help reduce the risk of oropharyngeal candidiasis. More frequent administration or a greater number of inhalations (more than 1 inhalation twice daily) of the prescribed strength of ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended as some patients are more likely to experience adverse effects with higher doses of salmeterol. Patients using ADVAIR DISKUS should not use additional LABA for any reason. [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 , 5.12 ).] • For oral inhalation only. ( 2 ) • Treatment of asthma in patients aged 12 years and older: 1 inhalation of ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50, ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, or ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 twice daily. Starting dosage is based on asthma severity. ( 2.1 ) • Treatment of asthma in patients aged 4 to 11 years: 1 inhalation of ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 twice daily. ( 2.1 ) • Maintenance treatment of COPD: 1 inhalation of ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 twice daily. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Asthma If asthma symptoms arise in the period between doses, an inhaled, short-acting beta 2 -agonist should be taken for immediate relief. Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older For patients aged 12 years and older, the dosage is 1 inhalation twice daily, approximately 12 hours apart. When choosing the starting dosage strength of ADVAIR DISKUS, consider the patients’ disease severity, based on their previous asthma therapy, including the ICS dosage, as well as the patients’ current control of asthma symptoms and risk of future exacerbation. The maximum recommended dosage is ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 twice daily. Improvement in asthma control following inhaled administration of ADVAIR DISKUS can occur within 30 minutes of beginning treatment, although maximum benefit may not be achieved for 1 week or longer after starting treatment. Individual patients will experience a variable time to onset and degree of symptom relief. For patients who do not respond adequately to the starting dosage after 2 weeks of therapy, replacing the current strength of ADVAIR DISKUS with a higher strength may provide additional improvement in asthma control. If a previously effective dosage regimen fails to provide adequate improvement in asthma control, the therapeutic regimen should be reevaluated and additional therapeutic options (e.g., replacing the current strength of ADVAIR DISKUS with a higher strength, adding additional ICS, initiating oral corticosteroids) should be considered. Pediatric Patients Aged 4 to 11 Years For patients with asthma aged 4 to 11 years who are not controlled on an ICS, the dosage is 1 inhalation of ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 twice daily, approximately 12 hours apart. 2.2 Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease The recommended dosage for patients with COPD is 1 inhalation of ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 twice daily, approximately 12 hours apart. If shortness of breath occurs in the period between doses, an inhaled, short-acting beta 2 -agonist should be taken for immediate relief.

## Dosage forms and strengths
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Inhalation powder: Inhaler containing a foil blister strip of powder formulation for oral inhalation. The strip contains a combination of fluticasone propionate 100, 250, or 500 mcg and salmeterol 50 mcg per blister. Inhalation powder: Inhaler containing a combination of fluticasone propionate (100, 250, or 500 mcg) and salmeterol (50 mcg) as a powder formulation for oral inhalation. ( 3 )

## Contraindications
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of ADVAIR DISKUS is contraindicated in the following conditions: • Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or other acute episodes of asthma or COPD where intensive measures are required [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . • Severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins or demonstrated hypersensitivity to fluticasone propionate, salmeterol, or any of the excipients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.3 ), Description ( 11 )] . • Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or acute episodes of asthma or COPD requiring intensive measures. ( 4 ) • Severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins or demonstrated hypersensitivity to fluticasone propionate, salmeterol, or any of the excipients. ( 4 )

## Warnings and cautions
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • LABA monotherapy increases the risk of serious asthma-related events. ( 5.1 ) • Do not initiate in acutely deteriorating asthma or COPD. Do not use to treat acute symptoms. ( 5.2 ) • Do not use in combination with an additional medicine containing a LABA because of risk of overdose. ( 5.3 ) • Candida albicans infection of the mouth and pharynx may occur. Monitor patients periodically. Advise the patient to rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing after inhalation to help reduce the risk. ( 5.4 ) • Increased risk of pneumonia in patients with COPD. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pneumonia. ( 5.5 ) • Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. ( 5.6 ) • Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from systemic corticosteroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. ( 5.7 ) • Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS slowly. ( 5.8 ) • If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs, discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS and institute alternative therapy. ( 5.10 ) • Use with caution in patients with cardiovascular or central nervous system disorders because of beta-adrenergic stimulation. ( 5.12 ) • Assess for decrease in bone mineral density initially and periodically thereafter. ( 5.13 ) • Monitor growth of pediatric patients. ( 5.14 ) • Glaucoma and cataracts may occur with long-term use of inhaled corticosteroids. Consider referral to an ophthalmologist in patients who develop ocular symptoms or use ADVAIR DISKUS long term. ( 5.15 ) • Be alert to eosinophilic conditions, hypokalemia, and hyperglycemia. ( 5.16 , 5.18 ) • Use with caution in patients with convulsive disorders, thyrotoxicosis, diabetes mellitus, and ketoacidosis. ( 5.17 ) 5.1 Serious Asthma-Related Events – Hospitalizations, Intubations, Death Use of LABA as monotherapy (without ICS) for asthma is associated with an increased risk of asthma-related death [see Salmeterol Multicenter Asthma Research Trial (SMART)] . Available data from controlled clinical trials also suggest that use of LABA as monotherapy increases the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. These findings are considered a class effect of LABA monotherapy. When LABA are used in fixed-dose combination with ICS, data from large clinical trials do not show a significant increase in the risk of serious asthma-related events (hospitalizations, intubations, death) compared with ICS alone (see Serious Asthma-Related Events with Inhaled Corticosteroid/Long-acting Beta 2 -adrenergic Agonists) . Serious Asthma-Related Events with Inhaled Corticosteroid/Long-acting Beta 2 -adrenergic Agonists Four (4) large, 26-week, randomized, double-blind, active-controlled clinical safety trials were conducted to evaluate the risk of serious asthma-related events when LABA were used in fixed-dose combination with ICS compared with ICS alone in subjects with asthma. Three (3) trials included adult and adolescent subjects aged 12 years and older: 1 trial compared fluticasone propionate/salmeterol inhalation powder (ADVAIR DISKUS) with fluticasone propionate inhalation powder [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] , 1 trial compared mometasone furoate/formoterol with mometasone furoate, and 1 trial compared budesonide/formoterol with budesonide. The fourth trial included pediatric subjects aged 4 to 11 years and compared fluticasone propionate/salmeterol inhalation powder with fluticasone propionate inhalation powder [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . The primary safety endpoint for all 4 trials was serious asthma-related events (hospitalizations, intubations, death). A blinded adjudication committee determined whether events were asthma related. The 3 adult and adolescent trials were designed to rule out a risk margin of 2.0, and the pediatric trial was designed to rule out a risk margin of 2.7. Each individual trial met its pre-specified objective and demonstrated non-inferiority of ICS/LABA to ICS alone. A meta-analysis of the 3 adult and adolescent trials did not show a significant increase in risk of a serious asthma-related event with ICS/LABA fixed-dose combination compared with ICS alone ( Table 1 ). These trials were not designed to rule out all risk for serious asthma-related events with ICS/LABA compared with ICS. Table 1. Meta-analysis of Serious Asthma-Related Events in Subjects with Asthma Aged 12 Years and Older ICS = Inhaled Corticosteroid, LABA = Long-acting Beta 2 -adrenergic Agonist. a Randomized subjects who had taken at least 1 dose of study drug. Planned treatment used for analysis. b Estimated using a Cox proportional hazards model for time to first event with baseline hazards stratified by each of the 3 trials. c Number of subjects with event that occurred within 6 months after the first use of study drug or 7 days after the last date of study drug, whichever date was later. Subjects can have one or more events, but only the first event was counted for analysis. A single, blinded, independent adjudication committee determined whether events were asthma related. ICS/LABA (n = 17,537) a ICS (n = 17,552) a ICS/LABA vs. ICS Hazard Ratio (95% CI) b Serious asthma-related event c 116 105 1.10 (0.85, 1.44) Asthma-related death 2 0 Asthma-related intubation (endotracheal) 1 2 Asthma-related hospitalization (≥24-hour stay) 115 105 The pediatric safety trial included 6,208 pediatric subjects aged 4 to 11 years who received ICS/LABA (fluticasone propionate/salmeterol inhalation powder) or ICS (fluticasone propionate inhalation powder). In this trial, 27/3,107 (0.9%) subjects randomized to ICS/LABA and 21/3,101 (0.7%) subjects randomized to ICS experienced a serious asthma-related event. There were no asthma-related deaths or intubations. ICS/LABA did not show a significantly increased risk of a serious asthma-related event compared with ICS based on the pre-specified risk margin (2.7), with an estimated hazard ratio of time to first event of 1.29 (95% CI: 0.73, 2.27). Salmeterol Multicenter Asthma Research Trial (SMART) A 28-week, placebo-controlled, U.S. trial that compared the safety of salmeterol with placebo, each added to usual asthma therapy, showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in subjects receiving salmeterol (13/13,176 in subjects treated with salmeterol versus 3/13,179 in subjects treated with placebo; relative risk: 4.37 [95% CI: 1.25, 15.34]). Use of background ICS was not required in SMART. The increased risk of asthma-related death is considered a class effect of LABA monotherapy. 5.2 Deterioration of Disease and Acute Episodes ADVAIR DISKUS should not be initiated in patients during rapidly deteriorating or potentially life-threatening episodes of asthma or COPD. ADVAIR DISKUS has not been studied in subjects with acutely deteriorating asthma or COPD. The initiation of ADVAIR DISKUS in this setting is not appropriate. Serious acute respiratory events, including fatalities, have been reported when salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, has been initiated in patients with significantly worsening or acutely deteriorating asthma. In most cases, these have occurred in patients with severe asthma (e.g., patients with a history of corticosteroid dependence, low pulmonary function, intubation, mechanical ventilation, frequent hospitalizations, previous life-threatening acute asthma exacerbations) and in some patients with acutely deteriorating asthma (e.g., patients with significantly increasing symptoms; increasing need for inhaled, short-acting beta 2 -agonists; decreasing response to usual medications; increasing need for systemic corticosteroids; recent emergency room visits; deteriorating lung function). However, these events have occurred in a few patients with less severe asthma as well. It was not possible from these reports to determine whether salmeterol contributed to these events. Increasing use of inhaled, short-acting beta 2 -agonists is a marker of deteriorating asthma. In this situation, the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen, giving special consideration to the possible need for replacing the current strength of ADVAIR DISKUS with a higher strength, adding additional ICS, or initiating systemic corticosteroids. Patients should not use more than 1 inhalation twice daily of ADVAIR DISKUS. ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms, i.e., as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. ADVAIR DISKUS has not been studied in the relief of acute symptoms and extra doses should not be used for that purpose. Acute symptoms should be treated with an inhaled, short-acting beta 2 -agonist. When beginning treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS, patients who have been taking oral or inhaled, short-acting beta 2 -agonists on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs. 5.3 Excessive Use of ADVAIR DISKUS and Use with Other Long-acting Beta 2 -agonists ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used more often than recommended, at higher doses than recommended, or in conjunction with other medicines containing LABA, as an overdose may result. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Patients using ADVAIR DISKUS should not use another medicine containing a LABA (e.g., salmeterol, formoterol fumarate, arformoterol tartrate, indacaterol) for any reason. 5.4 Local Effects of Inhaled Corticosteroids In clinical trials, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral) antifungal therapy while treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS continues, but at times therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS may need to be interrupted. Advise the patient to rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing following inhalation to help reduce the risk of oropharyngeal candidiasis. 5.5 Pneumonia Physicians should remain vigilant for the possible development of pneumonia in patients with COPD as the clinical features of pneumonia and exacerbations frequently overlap. Lower respiratory tract infections, including pneumonia, have been reported in patients with COPD following the inhaled administration of corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate and ADVAIR DISKUS. In 2 replicate 1-year trials in 1,579 subjects with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in subjects receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (7%) than in those receiving salmeterol 50 mcg (3%). The incidence of pneumonia in the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS was higher in subjects older than 65 years (9%) compared with the incidence in subjects younger than 65 years (4%). [See Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ).] In a 3-year trial in 6,184 subjects with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in subjects receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 compared with placebo (16% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 14% with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, 11% with salmeterol 50 mcg, and 9% with placebo). Similar to what was seen in the 1-year trials with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in subjects older than 65 years (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with subjects younger than 65 years (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ).] 5.6 Immunosuppression P
[truncated]

## Adverse reactions
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence ≥3%) include: • Asthma: Upper respiratory tract infection or inflammation, pharyngitis, dysphonia, oral candidiasis, bronchitis, cough, headaches, nausea and vomiting. ( 6.1 ) • COPD: Pneumonia, oral candidiasis, throat irritation, dysphonia, viral respiratory infections, headaches, musculoskeletal pain. ( 6.2 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience in Asthma Adult and Adolescent Subjects Aged 12 Years and Older The incidence of adverse reactions associated with ADVAIR DISKUS in Table 2 is based upon two 12-week, placebo-controlled, U.S. clinical trials (Trials 1 and 2). A total of 705 adult and adolescent subjects (349 females and 356 males) previously treated with salmeterol or ICS were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS (100/50- or 250/50-mcg doses), fluticasone propionate inhalation powder (100- or 250-mcg doses), salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg, or placebo. The average duration of exposure was 60 to 79 days in the active treatment groups compared with 42 days in the placebo group. Table 2. Adverse Reactions with ADVAIR DISKUS with ≥3% Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Adult and Adolescent Subjects with Asthma Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 (n = 92) % ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (n = 84) % Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg (n = 90) % Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (n = 84) % Salmeterol 50 mcg (n = 180) % Placebo (n = 175) % Ear, nose, and throat Upper respiratory tract infection 27 21 29 25 19 14 Pharyngitis 13 10 7 12 8 6 Upper respiratory inflammation 7 6 7 8 8 5 Sinusitis 4 5 6 1 3 4 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 2 2 4 <1 <1 Oral candidiasis 1 4 2 2 0 0 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 4 4 4 10 6 3 Bronchitis 2 8 1 2 2 2 Cough 3 6 0 0 3 2 Neurology Headaches 12 13 14 8 10 7 Gastrointestinal Nausea and vomiting 4 6 3 4 1 1 Gastrointestinal discomfort and pain 4 1 0 2 1 1 Diarrhea 4 2 2 2 1 1 Viral gastrointestinal infections 3 0 3 1 2 2 Non-site specific Candidiasis unspecified site 3 0 1 4 0 1 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 4 2 1 5 3 3 The types of adverse reactions and events reported in Trial 3, a 28-week, non-U.S. clinical trial in 503 subjects previously treated with ICS who were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg and salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg used concurrently, or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg, were similar to those reported in Table 2 . Additional Adverse Reactions Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by subjects with asthma treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with subjects treated with placebo include the following: lymphatic signs and symptoms; muscle injuries; fractures; wounds and lacerations; contusions and hematomas; ear signs and symptoms; nasal signs and symptoms; nasal sinus disorders; keratitis and conjunctivitis; dental discomfort and pain; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral ulcerations; oral discomfort and pain; lower respiratory signs and symptoms; pneumonia; muscle stiffness, tightness, and rigidity; bone and cartilage disorders; sleep disorders; compressed nerve syndromes; viral infections; pain; chest symptoms; fluid retention; bacterial infections; unusual taste; viral skin infections; skin flakiness and acquired ichthyosis; disorders of sweat and sebum. Pediatric Subjects Aged 4 to 11 Years The safety data for pediatric subjects aged 4 to 11 years is based upon 1 U.S. trial of 12 weeks’ treatment duration. A total of 203 subjects (74 females and 129 males) who were receiving ICS at trial entry were randomized to either ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 100 mcg twice daily. Common adverse reactions (≥3% and greater than placebo) seen in the pediatric subjects but not reported in the adult and adolescent clinical trials include: throat irritation and ear, nose, and throat infections. Laboratory Test Abnormalities Elevation of hepatic enzymes was reported in ≥1% of subjects in clinical trials. The elevations were transient and did not lead to discontinuation from the trials. In addition, there were no clinically relevant changes noted in glucose or potassium. 6.2 Clinical Trials Experience in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Short-term (6 Months to 1 Year) Trials The short-term safety data are based on exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 twice daily in one 6-month and two 1-year clinical trials. In the 6-month trial, a total of 723 adult subjects (266 females and 457 males) were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 250 mcg, salmeterol inhalation powder, or placebo. The mean age of the subjects was 64, and the majority (93%) was Caucasian. In this trial, 70% of the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS reported an adverse reaction compared with 64% on placebo. The average duration of exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was 141.3 days compared with 131.6 days for placebo. The incidence of adverse reactions in the 6-month trial is shown in Table 3 . Table 3. Overall Adverse Reactions with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 with ≥3% Incidence in Subjects with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Associated with Chronic Bronchitis Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (n = 178) % Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (n = 183) % Salmeterol 50 mcg (n = 177) % Placebo (n = 185) % Ear, nose, and throat Candidiasis mouth/throat 10 6 3 1 Throat irritation 8 5 4 7 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 3 <1 0 Sinusitis 3 8 5 3 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 6 4 3 3 Neurology Headaches 16 11 10 12 Dizziness 4 <1 3 2 Non-site specific Fever 4 3 0 3 Malaise and fatigue 3 2 2 3 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 9 8 12 9 Muscle cramps and spasms 3 3 1 1 In the two 1-year trials, ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was compared with salmeterol in 1,579 subjects (863 males and 716 females). The mean age of the subjects was 65 years, and the majority (94%) was Caucasian. To be enrolled, all of the subjects had to have had a COPD exacerbation in the previous 12 months. In this trial, 88% of the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 86% of the subjects treated with salmeterol reported an adverse event. The most common events that occurred with a frequency of >5% and more frequently in the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS were nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, nasal congestion, back pain, sinusitis, dizziness, nausea, pneumonia, candidiasis, and dysphonia. Overall, 55 (7%) of the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 25 (3%) of the subjects treated with salmeterol developed pneumonia. The incidence of pneumonia was higher in subjects older than 65 years, 9% in the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with 4% in the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS younger than 65 years. In the subjects treated with salmeterol, the incidence of pneumonia was the same (3%) in both age groups. [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ).] Long-term (3 Years) Trial The safety of ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, international, 3-year trial in 6,184 adult subjects with COPD (4,684 males and 1,500 females). The mean age of the subjects was 65 years, and the majority (82%) was Caucasian. The distribution of adverse events was similar to that seen in the 1-year trials with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50. In addition, pneumonia was reported in a significantly increased number of subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 and fluticasone propionate 500 mcg (16% and 14%, respectively) compared with subjects treated with salmeterol 50 mcg or placebo (11% and 9%, respectively). When adjusted for time on treatment, the rates of pneumonia were 84 and 88 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the groups treated with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg and with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, respectively, compared with 52 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the salmeterol and placebo groups. Similar to what was seen in the 1-year trials with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in subjects older than 65 years (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with subjects younger than 65 years (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ).] Additional Adverse Reactions Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by subjects with COPD treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with subjects treated with placebo include the following: syncope; ear, nose, and throat infections; ear signs and symptoms; laryngitis; nasal congestion/blockage; nasal sinus disorders; pharyngitis/throat infection; hypothyroidism; dry eyes; eye infections; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral lesions; abnormal liver function tests; bacterial infections; edema and swelling; viral infections. Laboratory Abnormalities There were no clinically relevant changes in these trials. Specifically, no increased reporting of neutrophilia or changes in glucose or potassium was noted. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of any formulation of ADVAIR, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol regardless of indication. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to ADVAIR DISKUS, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol or a combination of these factors. Cardiac Disorders Arrhythmias (including atrial fibrillation, extrasystoles, supraventricular tachycardia), ventricular tachycardia. Endocrine Disorders Cushing’s syndrome, Cushingoid features, growth velocity reduction in children/adolescents, hypercorticism. Eye Disorders Glaucoma. Gastrointestinal Disorders Abdominal pain, dyspepsia, xerostomia. Immune System Disorders Immediate and delayed hypersensitivity reaction (including very rare anaphylactic reaction). Very rare anaphylactic reaction in patients with severe milk protein allergy. Infections and Infestations Esophageal candidiasis. Metabolic and Nutrition Disorders Hyperglycemia, weight gain. Musculoskeletal, Connective Tissue, and Bone Disorders Arthralgia, cramps, myositis, osteoporosis. Nervous System Disorders Paresthesia, restlessness. Psychiatric Disorders Agitation, aggression, depression. Behavioral changes, including hyperactivity and irritability, have been reported very rarely and primarily in children. Reproductive System and Breast Disorders Dysmenorrhea. Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders Chest congestion; chest tightness; dyspnea; facial and oropharyngeal edema, immediate bronchospasm; paradoxical bronchospasm; tracheitis; wheezing; reports of upper respiratory symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling such as stridor or choking. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Ecchymoses, photodermatitis. Vascular Disorders Pallor.

## Drug interactions
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS ADVAIR DISKUS has been used concomitantly with other drugs, including short-acting beta 2 -agonists, methylxanthines, and intranasal corticosteroids, commonly used in patients with asthma or COPD without adverse drug reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . No formal drug interaction trials have been performed with ADVAIR DISKUS. • Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): Use not recommended. May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. ( 7.1 ) • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants: Use with extreme caution. May potentiate effect of salmeterol on vascular system. ( 7.2 ) • Beta-blockers: Use with caution. May block bronchodilatory effects of beta-agonists and produce severe bronchospasm. ( 7.3 ) • Diuretics: Use with caution. Electrocardiographic changes and/or hypokalemia associated with non–potassium-sparing diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta-agonists. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol, the individual components of ADVAIR DISKUS, are substrates of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir Fluticasone Propionate: A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole Fluticasone Propionate: Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Salmeterol: In a drug interaction trial in 20 healthy subjects, coadministration of inhaled salmeterol (50 mcg twice daily) and oral ketoconazole (400 mg once daily) for 7 days resulted in greater systemic exposure to salmeterol (AUC increased 16-fold and C max increased 1.4-fold). Three (3) subjects were withdrawn due to beta 2 -agonist side effects (2 with prolonged QTc and 1 with palpitations and sinus tachycardia). Although there was no statistical effect on the mean QTc, coadministration of salmeterol and ketoconazole was associated with more frequent increases in QTc duration compared with salmeterol and placebo administration. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants ADVAIR DISKUS should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, on the vascular system may be potentiated by these agents. 7.3 Beta-adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta-blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with asthma or COPD. Therefore, patients with asthma or COPD should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents for these patients; cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. 7.4 Non–Potassium-Sparing Diuretics The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non–potassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of ADVAIR DISKUS with non–potassium-sparing diuretics.

## Use in specific populations
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Hepatic impairment: Monitor patients for signs of increased drug exposure. ( 8.6 ) 8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are insufficient data on the use of ADVAIR DISKUS or individual monoproducts, fluticasone propionate and salmeterol xinafoate, in pregnant women. There are clinical considerations with the use of ADVAIR DISKUS in pregnant women. (See Clinical Considerations.) In animals, teratogenicity characteristic of corticosteroids, decreased fetal body weight and/or skeletal variations, in rats, mice, and rabbits were observed with subcutaneously administered maternal toxic doses of fluticasone propionate less than the maximum recommended human daily inhaled dose (MRHDID) on a mcg/m 2 basis. (See Data.) However, fluticasone propionate administered via inhalation to rats decreased fetal body weight, but did not induce teratogenicity at a maternal toxic dose less than the MRHDID on a mcg/m 2 basis. (See Data.) Experience with oral corticosteroids suggests that rodents are more prone to teratogenic effects from corticosteroids than humans. Oral administration of salmeterol to pregnant rabbits caused teratogenicity characteristic of beta-adrenoceptor stimulation at maternal doses approximately 50 times the MRHDID on an AUC basis. These adverse effects generally occurred at large multiples of the MRHDID when salmeterol was administered by the oral route to achieve high systemic exposures. No such effects occurred at an oral salmeterol dose approximately 20 times the MRHDID. (See Data.) The estimated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. In the U.S. general population, the estimated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2% to 4% and 15% to 20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Disease-Associated Maternal and/or Embryofetal Risk: In women with poorly or moderately controlled asthma, there is an increased risk of several perinatal outcomes such as pre-eclampsia in the mother and prematurity, low birth weight, and small for gestational age in the neonate. Pregnant women should be closely monitored and medication adjusted as necessary to maintain optimal control of asthma. Labor and Delivery: There are no human studies evaluating the effects of ADVAIR DISKUS during labor and delivery. Because of the potential for beta-agonist interference with uterine contractility, use of ADVAIR DISKUS during labor should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risks. Data Human Data: Fluticasone Propionate: Following inhaled administration, fluticasone propionate was detected in the neonatal cord blood after delivery. Animal Data: Fluticasone Propionate and Salmeterol: In an embryofetal development study with pregnant rats that received the combination of subcutaneous administration of fluticasone propionate and oral administration of salmeterol at doses of 0/1,000; 30/0; 10/100; 30/1,000; and 100/10,000 mcg/kg/day (as fluticasone propionate/salmeterol) during the period of organogenesis, findings were generally consistent with the individual monoproducts and there was no exacerbation of expected fetal effects. Omphalocele, increased embryofetal deaths, decreased body weight, and skeletal variations were observed in rat fetuses in the presence of maternal toxicity when combining fluticasone propionate at a dose approximately equivalent to the MRHDID (on a mcg/m 2 basis at a maternal subcutaneous dose of 100 mcg/kg/day) and salmeterol at a dose approximately 970 times the MRHDID (on a mcg/m 2 basis at a maternal oral dose of 10,000 mcg/kg/day). The rat no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) was observed when combining fluticasone propionate at a dose approximately 0.3 times the MRHDID (on a mcg/m 2 basis at a maternal subcutaneous dose of 30 mcg/kg/day) and salmeterol at a dose approximately 100 times the MRHDID (on a mcg/m 2 basis at a maternal oral dose of 1,000 mcg/kg/day). In an embryofetal development study with pregnant mice that received the combination of subcutaneous administration of fluticasone propionate and oral administration of salmeterol at doses of 0/1,400; 40/0; 10/200; 40/1,400; or 150/10,000 mcg/kg/day (as fluticasone propionate/salmeterol) during the period of organogenesis, findings were generally consistent with the individual monoproducts and there was no exacerbation of expected fetal effects. Cleft palate, fetal death, increased implantation loss, and delayed ossification were observed in mouse fetuses when combining fluticasone propionate at a dose approximately 0.7 times the MRHDID (on a mcg/m 2 basis at a maternal subcutaneous dose of 150 mcg/kg/day) and salmeterol at a dose approximately 490 times the MRHDID (on a mcg/m 2 basis at a maternal oral dose of 10,000 mcg/kg/day). No developmental toxicity was observed at combination doses of fluticasone propionate up to approximately 0.2 times the MRHDID (on a mcg/m 2 basis at a maternal subcutaneous dose of 40 mcg/kg) and doses of salmeterol up to approximately 70 times the MRHDID (on a mcg/m 2 basis at a maternal oral dose of 1,400 mcg/kg). Fluticasone Propionate: In embryofetal development studies with pregnant rats and mice dosed by the subcutaneous route throughout the period of organogenesis, fluticasone propionate was teratogenic in both species. Omphalocele, decreased body weight, and skeletal variations were observed in rat fetuses, in the presence of maternal toxicity, at a dose approximately equivalent to the MRHDID (on a mcg/m 2 basis with a maternal subcutaneous dose of 100 mcg/kg/day). The rat NOAEL was observed at approximately 0.3 times the MRHDID (on a mcg/m 2 basis with a maternal subcutaneous dose of 30 mcg/kg/day). Cleft palate and fetal skeletal variations were observed in mouse fetuses at a dose approximately 0.2 times the MRHDID (on a mcg/m 2 basis with a maternal subcutaneous dose of 45 mcg/kg/day). The mouse NOAEL was observed with a dose approximately 0.07 times the MRHDID (on a mcg/m 2 basis with a maternal subcutaneous dose of 15 mcg/kg/day). In an embryofetal development study with pregnant rats dosed by the inhalation route throughout the period of organogenesis, fluticasone propionate produced decreased fetal body weights and skeletal variations, in the presence of maternal toxicity, at a dose approximately 0.25 times the MRHDID (on a mcg/m 2 basis with a maternal inhalation dose of 25.7 mcg/kg/day); however, there was no evidence of teratogenicity. The NOAEL was observed with a dose approximately 0.05 times the MRHDID (on a mcg/m 2 basis with a maternal inhalation dose of 5.5 mcg/kg/day). In an embryofetal development study in pregnant rabbits that were dosed by the subcutaneous route throughout organogenesis, fluticasone propionate produced reductions of fetal body weights, in the presence of maternal toxicity, at doses approximately 0.012 times the MRHDID and higher (on a mcg/m 2 basis with a maternal subcutaneous dose of 0.57 mcg/kg/day). Teratogenicity was evident based upon a finding of cleft palate for 1 fetus at a dose approximately 0.08 times the MRHDID (on a mcg/m 2 basis with a maternal subcutaneous dose of 4 mcg/kg/day). The NOAEL was observed in rabbit fetuses with a dose approximately 0.002 times the MRHDID (on a mcg/m 2 basis with a maternal subcutaneous dose of 0.08 mcg/kg/day). Fluticasone propionate crossed the placenta following subcutaneous administration to mice and rats and oral administration to rabbits. In a pre- and post-natal development study in pregnant rats dosed by the subcutaneous route from late gestation through delivery and lactation (Gestation Day 17 to Postpartum Day 22), fluticasone propionate was not associated with decreases in pup body weight, and had no effects on developmental landmarks, learning, memory, reflexes, or fertility at doses up to 0.5 times the MRHDID (on a mcg/m 2 basis with maternal subcutaneous doses up to 50 mcg/kg/day). Salmeterol: In 3 embryofetal development studies, pregnant rabbits received oral administration of salmeterol at doses ranging from 100 to 10,000 mcg/kg/day during the period of organogenesis. In pregnant Dutch rabbits administered salmeterol doses approximately 50 times the MRHDID (on an AUC basis at maternal oral doses of 1,000 mcg/kg/day and higher), fetal toxic effects were observed characteristically resulting from beta-adrenoceptor stimulation. These included precocious eyelid openings, cleft palate, sternebral fusion, limb and paw flexures, and delayed ossification of the frontal cranial bones. No such effects occurred at a salmeterol dose approximately 20 times the MRHDID (on an AUC basis at a maternal oral dose of 600 mcg/kg/day). New Zealand White rabbits were less sensitive since only delayed ossification of the frontal cranial bones was seen at a salmeterol dose approximately 2,000 times the MRHDID (on a mcg/m 2 basis at a maternal oral dose of 10,000 mcg/kg/day). In 2 embryofetal development studies, pregnant rats received salmeterol by oral administration at doses ranging from 100 to 10,000 mcg/kg/day during the period of organogenesis. Salmeterol produced no maternal toxicity or embryofetal effects at doses up to 973 times the MRHDID (on a mcg/m 2 basis at maternal oral doses up to 10,000 mcg/kg/day). In a peri- and post-natal development study in pregnant rats dosed by the oral route from late gestation through delivery and lactation, salmeterol at a dose 973 times the MRHDID (on a mcg/m 2 basis with a maternal oral dose of 10,000 mcg/kg/day) was fetotoxic and decreased the fertility of survivors. Salmeterol xinafoate crossed the placenta following oral administration to mice and rats. 8.2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no available data on the presence of fluticasone propionate or salmeterol in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production. Other corticosteroids have been detected in human milk. However, fluticasone propionate and salmeterol concentrations in plasma after inhaled therapeutic doses are low and therefore concentrations in human breast milk are likely to be correspondingly low [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother’s clinical need for ADVAIR DISKUS and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from ADVAIR DISKUS or from the underlying maternal condition. Data Animal Data: Subcutaneous administration of tritiated fluticasone propionate at a dose of 10 mcg/kg/day to lactating rats resulted in measurable levels in milk. Oral administration of salmeterol at a dose of 10,000 mcg/kg/day to lactating rats resulted in measurable levels in milk. 8.4 Pediatric Use Use of ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 in patients aged 4 to 11 years is supported by extrapolation of efficacy data from older subjects and by safety and efficacy data from a trial of ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 in children with asthma aged 4 to 11 years [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ), Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . The safety and effectiveness of ADVAIR DISKUS in children with asthma younger than 4 years have not been established. ICS, including fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, may cause a reduction in growth velocity in children and adolescents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 )] . The growth of pediatric patients receiving orally inhaled corticosteroids, including ADVAIR DISKUS, should be monitored. A 52-week placebo-controlled trial to assess the potential growth effects of fluticasone propionate inhalation powder (FLOVENT ROTADISK) at 50 and 100 mcg twice daily was conducted in the U.S. in 325 prepubescent children (244 males and 81 females) aged 4 to 11 years. The mean growth velocities at 52 weeks observed in the intent-to-treat population were 6.32 cm/year in the placebo group (n = 76), 6.07 cm/year in the 50-mcg group (n = 98), and 5.66 cm/year in the 100-mcg group (n = 89). An imbalan
[truncated]

## Overdosage
10 OVERDOSAGE No human overdosage data has been reported for ADVAIR DISKUS. ADVAIR DISKUS contains both fluticasone propionate and salmeterol; therefore, the risks associated with overdosage for the individual components described below apply to ADVAIR DISKUS. Treatment of overdosage consists of discontinuation of ADVAIR DISKUS together with institution of appropriate symptomatic and/or supportive therapy. The judicious use of a cardioselective beta-receptor blocker may be considered, bearing in mind that such medication can produce bronchospasm. Cardiac monitoring is recommended in cases of overdosage. 10.1 Fluticasone Propionate Chronic overdosage of fluticasone propionate may result in signs/symptoms of hypercorticism [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . Inhalation by healthy volunteers of a single dose of 4,000 mcg of fluticasone propionate inhalation powder or single doses of 1,760 or 3,520 mcg of fluticasone propionate CFC inhalation aerosol was well tolerated. Fluticasone propionate given by inhalation aerosol at dosages of 1,320 mcg twice daily for 7 to 15 days to healthy human volunteers was also well tolerated. Repeat oral doses up to 80 mg daily for 10 days in healthy volunteers and repeat oral doses up to 20 mg daily for 42 days in subjects were well tolerated. Adverse reactions were of mild or moderate severity, and incidences were similar in active and placebo treatment groups. 10.2 Salmeterol The expected signs and symptoms with overdosage of salmeterol are those of excessive beta‑adrenergic stimulation and/or occurrence or exaggeration of any of the signs and symptoms of beta-adrenergic stimulation (e.g., seizures, angina, hypertension or hypotension, tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats/min, arrhythmias, nervousness, headache, tremor, muscle cramps, dry mouth, palpitation, nausea, dizziness, fatigue, malaise, insomnia, hyperglycemia, hypokalemia, metabolic acidosis). Overdosage with salmeterol can lead to clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval, which can produce ventricular arrhythmias. As with all inhaled sympathomimetic medicines, cardiac arrest and even death may be associated with an overdose of salmeterol.

## Description
11 DESCRIPTION ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50, ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, and ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 are combinations of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol xinafoate. One active component of ADVAIR DISKUS is fluticasone propionate, a corticosteroid having the chemical name S- (fluoromethyl) 6α,9-difluoro-11β,17-dihydroxy-16α-methyl-3-oxoandrosta-1,4-diene-17β-carbothioate, 17-propionate and the following chemical structure: Fluticasone propionate is a white powder with a molecular weight of 500.6, and the empirical formula is C 25 H 31 F 3 O 5 S. It is practically insoluble in water, freely soluble in dimethyl sulfoxide and dimethylformamide, and slightly soluble in methanol and 95% ethanol. The other active component of ADVAIR DISKUS is salmeterol xinafoate, a beta 2 -adrenergic bronchodilator. Salmeterol xinafoate is the racemic form of the 1-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid salt of salmeterol. It has the chemical name 4-hydroxy-α 1 -[[[6-(4-phenylbutoxy)hexyl]amino]methyl]-1,3-benzenedimethanol, 1-hydroxy-2-naphthalenecarboxylate and the following chemical structure: Salmeterol xinafoate is a white powder with a molecular weight of 603.8, and the empirical formula is C 25 H 37 NO 4 •C 11 H 8 O 3 . It is freely soluble in methanol; slightly soluble in ethanol, chloroform, and isopropanol; and sparingly soluble in water. ADVAIR DISKUS is a purple plastic inhaler containing a foil blister strip. Each blister on the strip contains a white powder mix of micronized fluticasone propionate (100, 250, or 500 mcg) and micronized salmeterol xinafoate salt (72.5 mcg, equivalent to 50 mcg of salmeterol base) in 12.5 mg of formulation containing lactose monohydrate (which contains milk proteins). After the inhaler is activated, the powder is dispersed into the airstream created by the patient inhaling through the mouthpiece. Under standardized in vitro test conditions, ADVAIR DISKUS delivers 93, 233, and 465 mcg of fluticasone propionate and 45 mcg of salmeterol base per blister from ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50, ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, and ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, respectively, when tested at a flow rate of 60 L/min for 2 seconds. In adult subjects with obstructive lung disease and severely compromised lung function (mean FEV 1 20% to 30% of predicted), mean peak inspiratory flow (PIF) through the DISKUS inhaler was 82.4 L/min (range: 46.1 to 115.3 L/min). Inhalation profiles for adolescent (N = 13, aged 12 to 17 years) and adult (N = 17, aged 18 to 50 years) subjects with asthma inhaling maximally through the DISKUS inhaler show mean PIF of 122.2 L/min (range: 81.6 to 152.1 L/min). Inhalation profiles for pediatric subjects with asthma inhaling maximally through the DISKUS inhaler show a mean PIF of 75.5 L/min (range: 49.0 to 104.8 L/min) for the 4-year-old subject set (N = 20) and 107.3 L/min (range: 82.8 to 125.6 L/min) for the 8-year-old subject set (N = 20). The actual amount of drug delivered to the lung will depend on patient factors, such as inspiratory flow profile. Fluticasone propionate chemical structure Salmeterol xinafoate chemical structure

## Clinical pharmacology
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action ADVAIR DISKUS ADVAIR DISKUS contains both fluticasone propionate and salmeterol. The mechanisms of action described below for the individual components apply to ADVAIR DISKUS. These drugs represent 2 different classes of medications (a synthetic corticosteroid and a LABA) that have different effects on clinical, physiologic, and inflammatory indices. Fluticasone Propionate Fluticasone propionate is a synthetic trifluorinated corticosteroid with anti-inflammatory activity. Fluticasone propionate has been shown in vitro to exhibit a binding affinity for the human glucocorticoid receptor that is 18 times that of dexamethasone, almost twice that of beclomethasone-17-monopropionate (BMP), the active metabolite of beclomethasone dipropionate, and over 3 times that of budesonide. Data from the McKenzie vasoconstrictor assay in man are consistent with these results. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Inflammation is an important component in the pathogenesis of asthma. Corticosteroids have been shown to have a wide range of actions on multiple cell types (e.g., mast cells, eosinophils, neutrophils, macrophages, lymphocytes) and mediators (e.g., histamine, eicosanoids, leukotrienes, cytokines) involved in inflammation. These anti-inflammatory actions of corticosteroids contribute to their efficacy in asthma. Inflammation is also a component in the pathogenesis of COPD. In contrast to asthma, however, the predominant inflammatory cells in COPD include neutrophils, CD8+ T-lymphocytes, and macrophages. The effects of corticosteroids in the treatment of COPD are not well defined and ICS and fluticasone propionate when used apart from ADVAIR DISKUS are not indicated for the treatment of COPD. Salmeterol Xinafoate Salmeterol is a selective LABA. In vitro studies show salmeterol to be at least 50 times more selective for beta 2 -adrenoceptors than albuterol. Although beta 2 -adrenoceptors are the predominant adrenergic receptors in bronchial smooth muscle and beta 1 -adrenoceptors are the predominant receptors in the heart, there are also beta 2 -adrenoceptors in the human heart comprising 10% to 50% of the total beta-adrenoceptors. The precise function of these receptors has not been established, but their presence raises the possibility that even selective beta 2 -agonists may have cardiac effects. The pharmacologic effects of beta 2 -adrenoceptor agonist drugs, including salmeterol, are at least in part attributable to stimulation of intracellular adenyl cyclase, the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to cyclic-3′,5′-adenosine monophosphate (cyclic AMP). Increased cyclic AMP levels cause relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle and inhibition of release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from cells, especially from mast cells. In vitro tests show that salmeterol is a potent and long-lasting inhibitor of the release of mast cell mediators, such as histamine, leukotrienes, and prostaglandin D 2 , from human lung. Salmeterol inhibits histamine-induced plasma protein extravasation and inhibits platelet-activating factor-induced eosinophil accumulation in the lungs of guinea pigs when administered by the inhaled route. In humans, single doses of salmeterol administered via inhalation aerosol attenuate allergen-induced bronchial hyper-responsiveness. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics ADVAIR DISKUS Healthy Subjects: Cardiovascular Effects: Since systemic pharmacodynamic effects of salmeterol are not normally seen at the therapeutic dose, higher doses were used to produce measurable effects. Four (4) trials were conducted with healthy adult subjects: (1) a single-dose crossover trial using 2 inhalations of ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg and salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg given concurrently, or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg given alone, (2) a cumulative-dose trial using 50 to 400 mcg of salmeterol inhalation powder given alone or as ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, (3) a repeat-dose trial for 11 days using 2 inhalations twice daily of ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 250 mcg, or salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg, and (4) a single-dose trial using 5 inhalations of ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 100 mcg alone, or placebo. In these trials no significant differences were observed in the pharmacodynamic effects of salmeterol (pulse rate, blood pressure, QTc interval, potassium, and glucose) whether the salmeterol was given as ADVAIR DISKUS, concurrently with fluticasone propionate from separate inhalers, or as salmeterol alone. The systemic pharmacodynamic effects of salmeterol were not altered by the presence of fluticasone propionate in ADVAIR DISKUS. The potential effect of salmeterol on the effects of fluticasone propionate on the HPA axis was also evaluated in these trials. Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Effects: No significant differences across treatments were observed in 24-hour urinary cortisol excretion and, where measured, 24-hour plasma cortisol AUC. The systemic pharmacodynamic effects of fluticasone propionate were not altered by the presence of salmeterol in ADVAIR DISKUS in healthy subjects. Subjects with Asthma: Adult and Adolescent Subjects: Cardiovascular Effects: In clinical trials with ADVAIR DISKUS in adult and adolescent subjects aged 12 years and older with asthma, no significant differences were observed in the systemic pharmacodynamic effects of salmeterol (pulse rate, blood pressure, QTc interval, potassium, and glucose) whether the salmeterol was given alone or as ADVAIR DISKUS. In 72 adult and adolescent subjects with asthma given either ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 or ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, continuous 24-hour electrocardiographic monitoring was performed after the first dose and after 12 weeks of therapy, and no clinically significant dysrhythmias were noted. Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Effects: In a 28-week trial in adult and adolescent subjects with asthma, ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 twice daily was compared with the concurrent use of salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg plus fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg from separate inhalers or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg alone. No significant differences across treatments were observed in serum cortisol AUC after 12 weeks of dosing or in 24-hour urinary cortisol excretion after 12 and 28 weeks. In a 12-week trial in adult and adolescent subjects with asthma, ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 twice daily was compared with fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 250 mcg alone, salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg alone, and placebo. For most subjects, the ability to increase cortisol production in response to stress, as assessed by 30-minute cosyntropin stimulation, remained intact with ADVAIR DISKUS. One subject (3%) who received ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 had an abnormal response (peak serum cortisol <18 mcg/dL) after dosing, compared with 2 subjects (6%) who received placebo, 2 subjects (6%) who received fluticasone propionate 250 mcg, and no subjects who received salmeterol. In a repeat-dose, 3-way crossover trial, 1 inhalation twice daily of ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50, FLOVENT DISKUS 100 mcg (fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 100 mcg), or placebo was administered to 20 adult and adolescent subjects with asthma. After 28 days of treatment, geometric mean serum cortisol AUC over 12 hours showed no significant difference between ADVAIR DISKUS and FLOVENT DISKUS or between either active treatment and placebo. Pediatric Subjects: Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Effects: In a 12-week trial in subjects with asthma aged 4 to 11 years who were receiving ICS at trial entry, ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 twice daily was compared with fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 100 mcg administered twice daily via the DISKUS. The values for 24-hour urinary cortisol excretion at trial entry and after 12 weeks of treatment were similar within each treatment group. After 12 weeks, 24-hour urinary cortisol excretion was also similar between the 2 groups. Subjects with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease: Cardiovascular Effects: In clinical trials with ADVAIR DISKUS in subjects with COPD, no significant differences were seen in pulse rate, blood pressure, potassium, and glucose between ADVAIR DISKUS, the individual components of ADVAIR DISKUS, and placebo. In a trial of ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, 8 subjects (2 [1.1%] in the group given ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, 1 [0.5%] in the fluticasone propionate 250-mcg group, 3 [1.7%] in the salmeterol group, and 2 [1.1%] in the placebo group) had QTc intervals >470 msec at least 1 time during the treatment period. Five (5) of these 8 subjects had a prolonged QTc interval at baseline. In a 24-week trial, 130 subjects with COPD received continuous 24-hour electrocardiographic monitoring prior to the first dose and after 4 weeks of twice-daily treatment with either ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg, salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg, or placebo. No significant differences in ventricular or supraventricular arrhythmias and heart rate were observed among the groups treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, the individual components, or placebo. One (1) subject in the fluticasone propionate group experienced atrial flutter/atrial fibrillation, and 1 subject in the group given ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 experienced heart block. There were 3 cases of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (1 each in the placebo, salmeterol, and fluticasone propionate 500-mcg treatment groups). In 24-week clinical trials in subjects with COPD, the incidence of clinically significant ECG abnormalities (myocardial ischemia, ventricular hypertrophy, clinically significant conduction abnormalities, clinically significant arrhythmias) was lower for subjects who received salmeterol (1%, 9 of 688 subjects who received either salmeterol 50 mcg or ADVAIR DISKUS) compared with placebo (3%, 10 of 370 subjects). No significant differences with salmeterol 50 mcg alone or in combination with fluticasone propionate as ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 were observed on pulse rate and systolic and diastolic blood pressure in a subset of subjects with COPD who underwent 12-hour serial vital sign measurements after the first dose (n = 183) and after 12 weeks of therapy (n = 149). Median changes from baseline in pulse rate and systolic and diastolic blood pressure were similar to those seen with placebo. Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Effects: Short-cosyntropin stimulation testing was performed both at Day 1 and Endpoint in 101 subjects with COPD receiving twice-daily ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 250 mcg, salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg, or placebo. For most subjects, the ability to increase cortisol production in response to stress, as assessed by short cosyntropin stimulation, remained intact with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50. One (1) subject (3%) who received ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 had an abnormal stimulated cortisol response (peak cortisol <14.5 mcg/dL assessed by high-performance liquid chromatography) after dosing, compared with 2 subjects (9%) who received fluticasone propionate 250 mcg, 2 subjects (7%) who received salmeterol 50 mcg, and 1 subject (4%) who received placebo following 24 weeks of treatment or early discontinuation from trial. After 36 weeks of dosing, serum cortisol concentrations in a subset of subjects with COPD (n = 83) were 22% lower in subjects receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 and 21% lower in subjects receiving fluticasone propionate 500 mcg than in subjects receiving placebo. Other Fluticasone Propionate Products Subjects with Asthma: Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Effects: In clinical trials with fluticasone propionate inhalation powder using dosages up to and including 250 mcg twice daily, occasional abnormal short cosyntropin tests (peak serum cortisol <
[truncated]

## Mechanism of action
12.1 Mechanism of Action ADVAIR DISKUS ADVAIR DISKUS contains both fluticasone propionate and salmeterol. The mechanisms of action described below for the individual components apply to ADVAIR DISKUS. These drugs represent 2 different classes of medications (a synthetic corticosteroid and a LABA) that have different effects on clinical, physiologic, and inflammatory indices. Fluticasone Propionate Fluticasone propionate is a synthetic trifluorinated corticosteroid with anti-inflammatory activity. Fluticasone propionate has been shown in vitro to exhibit a binding affinity for the human glucocorticoid receptor that is 18 times that of dexamethasone, almost twice that of beclomethasone-17-monopropionate (BMP), the active metabolite of beclomethasone dipropionate, and over 3 times that of budesonide. Data from the McKenzie vasoconstrictor assay in man are consistent with these results. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Inflammation is an important component in the pathogenesis of asthma. Corticosteroids have been shown to have a wide range of actions on multiple cell types (e.g., mast cells, eosinophils, neutrophils, macrophages, lymphocytes) and mediators (e.g., histamine, eicosanoids, leukotrienes, cytokines) involved in inflammation. These anti-inflammatory actions of corticosteroids contribute to their efficacy in asthma. Inflammation is also a component in the pathogenesis of COPD. In contrast to asthma, however, the predominant inflammatory cells in COPD include neutrophils, CD8+ T-lymphocytes, and macrophages. The effects of corticosteroids in the treatment of COPD are not well defined and ICS and fluticasone propionate when used apart from ADVAIR DISKUS are not indicated for the treatment of COPD. Salmeterol Xinafoate Salmeterol is a selective LABA. In vitro studies show salmeterol to be at least 50 times more selective for beta 2 -adrenoceptors than albuterol. Although beta 2 -adrenoceptors are the predominant adrenergic receptors in bronchial smooth muscle and beta 1 -adrenoceptors are the predominant receptors in the heart, there are also beta 2 -adrenoceptors in the human heart comprising 10% to 50% of the total beta-adrenoceptors. The precise function of these receptors has not been established, but their presence raises the possibility that even selective beta 2 -agonists may have cardiac effects. The pharmacologic effects of beta 2 -adrenoceptor agonist drugs, including salmeterol, are at least in part attributable to stimulation of intracellular adenyl cyclase, the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to cyclic-3′,5′-adenosine monophosphate (cyclic AMP). Increased cyclic AMP levels cause relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle and inhibition of release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from cells, especially from mast cells. In vitro tests show that salmeterol is a potent and long-lasting inhibitor of the release of mast cell mediators, such as histamine, leukotrienes, and prostaglandin D 2 , from human lung. Salmeterol inhibits histamine-induced plasma protein extravasation and inhibits platelet-activating factor-induced eosinophil accumulation in the lungs of guinea pigs when administered by the inhaled route. In humans, single doses of salmeterol administered via inhalation aerosol attenuate allergen-induced bronchial hyper-responsiveness.

## Clinical studies
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14.1 Asthma Adult and Adolescent Subjects Aged 12 Years and Older In clinical trials comparing ADVAIR DISKUS with its individual components, improvements in most efficacy endpoints were greater with ADVAIR DISKUS than with the use of either fluticasone propionate or salmeterol alone. In addition, clinical trials showed similar results between ADVAIR DISKUS and the concurrent use of fluticasone propionate plus salmeterol at corresponding doses from separate inhalers. Trials Comparing ADVAIR DISKUS with Fluticasone Propionate Alone or Salmeterol Alone: Three (3) double-blind, parallel-group clinical trials were conducted with ADVAIR DISKUS in 1,208 adult and adolescent subjects (aged 12 years and older, baseline FEV 1 63% to 72% of predicted normal) with asthma that was not optimally controlled on their current therapy. All treatments were inhalation powders given as 1 inhalation from the DISKUS inhaler twice daily, and other maintenance therapies were discontinued. Trial 1: Clinical Trial with ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50: This placebo-controlled, 12-week, U.S. trial compared ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 with its individual components, fluticasone propionate 100 mcg and salmeterol 50 mcg. The trial was stratified according to baseline asthma maintenance therapy; subjects were using either ICS (n = 250) (daily doses of beclomethasone dipropionate 252 to 420 mcg; flunisolide 1,000 mcg; fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol 176 mcg; or triamcinolone acetonide 600 to 1,000 mcg) or salmeterol (n = 106). Baseline FEV 1 measurements were similar across treatments: ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50, 2.17 L; fluticasone propionate 100 mcg, 2.11 L; salmeterol, 2.13 L; and placebo, 2.15 L. Predefined withdrawal criteria for lack of efficacy, an indicator of worsening asthma, were utilized for this placebo-controlled trial. Worsening asthma was defined as a clinically important decrease in FEV 1 or PEF, increase in use of VENTOLIN (albuterol, USP) Inhalation Aerosol, increase in night awakenings due to asthma, emergency intervention or hospitalization due to asthma, or requirement for asthma medication not allowed by the protocol. As shown in Table 4 , statistically significantly fewer subjects receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 were withdrawn due to worsening asthma compared with fluticasone propionate, salmeterol, and placebo. Table 4. Percent of Subjects Withdrawn due to Worsening Asthma in Subjects Previously Treated with Either Inhaled Corticosteroids or Salmeterol (Trial 1) ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 (n = 87) Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg (n = 85) Salmeterol 50 mcg (n = 86) Placebo (n = 77) 3% 11% 35% 49% The FEV 1 results are displayed in Figure 1. Because this trial used predetermined criteria for worsening asthma, which caused more subjects in the placebo group to be withdrawn, FEV 1 results at Endpoint (last available FEV 1 result) are also provided. Subjects receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 had significantly greater improvements in FEV 1 (0.51 L, 25%) compared with fluticasone propionate 100 mcg (0.28 L, 15%), salmeterol (0.11 L, 5%), and placebo (0.01 L, 1%). These improvements in FEV 1 with ADVAIR DISKUS were achieved regardless of baseline asthma maintenance therapy (ICS or salmeterol). Figure 1. Mean Percent Change from Baseline in FEV 1 in Subjects with Asthma Previously Treated with Either Inhaled Corticosteroids or Salmeterol (Trial 1) The effect of ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 on morning and evening PEF endpoints is shown in Table 5 . Table 5. Peak Expiratory Flow Results for Subjects with Asthma Previously Treated with Either Inhaled Corticosteroids or Salmeterol (Trial 1) AM PEF = morning peak expiratory flow, PM PEF = evening peak expiratory flow. a Change from baseline = change from baseline at Endpoint (last available data). Efficacy Variable a ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 (n = 87) Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg (n = 85) Salmeterol 50 mcg (n = 86) Placebo (n = 77) AM PEF (L/min) Baseline 393 374 369 382 Change from baseline 53 17 -2 -24 PM PEF (L/min) Baseline 418 390 396 398 Change from baseline 35 18 -7 -13 The subjective impact of asthma on subjects’ perception of health was evaluated through use of an instrument called the Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (AQLQ) (based on a 7-point scale where 1 = maximum impairment and 7 = none). Subjects receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 had clinically meaningful improvements in overall asthma-specific quality of life as defined by a difference between groups of ≥0.5 points in change from baseline AQLQ scores (difference in AQLQ score of 1.25 compared with placebo). Trial 2: Clinical Trial with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50: This placebo-controlled, 12-week, U.S. trial compared ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 with its individual components, fluticasone propionate 250 mcg and salmeterol 50 mcg, in 349 subjects with asthma using ICS (daily doses of beclomethasone dipropionate 462 to 672 mcg; flunisolide 1,250 to 2,000 mcg; fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol 440 mcg; or triamcinolone acetonide 1,100 to 1,600 mcg). Baseline FEV 1 measurements were similar across treatments: ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, 2.23 L; fluticasone propionate 250 mcg, 2.12 L; salmeterol, 2.20 L; and placebo, 2.19 L. Efficacy results in this trial were similar to those observed in Trial 1. Subjects receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 had significantly greater improvements in FEV 1 (0.48 L, 23%) compared with fluticasone propionate 250 mcg (0.25 L, 13%), salmeterol (0.05 L, 4%), and placebo (decrease of 0.11 L, decrease of 5%). Statistically significantly fewer subjects receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 were withdrawn from this trial for worsening asthma (4%) compared with fluticasone propionate (22%), salmeterol (38%), and placebo (62%). In addition, ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was superior to fluticasone propionate, salmeterol, and placebo for improvements in morning and evening PEF. Subjects receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 also had clinically meaningful improvements in overall asthma-specific quality of life as described in Trial 1 (difference in AQLQ score of 1.29 compared with placebo). Trial 3: Clinical Trial with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50: This 28-week, non-U.S. trial compared ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg alone and concurrent therapy (salmeterol 50 mcg plus fluticasone propionate 500 mcg administered from separate inhalers) twice daily in 503 subjects with asthma using ICS (daily doses of beclomethasone dipropionate 1,260 to 1,680 mcg; budesonide 1,500 to 2,000 mcg; flunisolide 1,500 to 2,000 mcg; or fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol 660 to 880 mcg [750 to 1,000 mcg inhalation powder]). The primary efficacy parameter, morning PEF, was collected daily for the first 12 weeks of the trial. The primary purpose of weeks 13 to 28 was to collect safety data. Baseline PEF measurements were similar across treatments: ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 359 L/min; fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, 351 L/min; and concurrent therapy, 345 L/min. Morning PEF improved significantly with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 compared with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg over the 12-week treatment period. Improvements in morning PEF observed with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 were similar to improvements observed with concurrent therapy. Onset of Action and Progression of Improvement in Asthma Control: The onset of action and progression of improvement in asthma control were evaluated in the 2 placebo-controlled U.S. trials. Following the first dose, the median time to onset of clinically significant bronchodilatation (≥15% improvement in FEV 1 ) in most subjects was seen within 30 to 60 minutes. Maximum improvement in FEV 1 generally occurred within 3 hours, and clinically significant improvement was maintained for 12 hours (Figure 2). Following the initial dose, predose FEV 1 relative to Day 1 baseline improved markedly over the first week of treatment and continued to improve over the 12 weeks of treatment in both trials. No diminution in the 12-hour bronchodilator effect was observed with either ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 (Figures 2 and 3) or ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 as assessed by FEV 1 following 12 weeks of therapy. Figure 2. Percent Change in Serial 12-Hour FEV 1 in Subjects with Asthma Previously Using Either Inhaled Corticosteroids or Salmeterol (Trial 1) First Treatment Day Figure 3. Percent Change in Serial 12-Hour FEV 1 in Subjects with Asthma Previously Using Either Inhaled Corticosteroids or Salmeterol (Trial 1) Last Treatment Day (Week 12) Reduction in asthma symptoms and use of rescue VENTOLIN Inhalation Aerosol and improvement in morning and evening PEF also occurred within the first day of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS, and continued to improve over the 12 weeks of therapy in both trials. Pediatric Subjects In a 12-week U.S. trial, ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 twice daily was compared with fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 100 mcg twice daily in 203 children with asthma aged 4 to 11 years. At trial entry, the children were symptomatic on low doses of ICS (beclomethasone dipropionate 252 to 336 mcg/day; budesonide 200 to 400 mcg/day; flunisolide 1,000 mcg/day; triamcinolone acetonide 600 to 1,000 mcg/day; or fluticasone propionate 88 to 250 mcg/day). The primary objective of this trial was to determine the safety of ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 compared with fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 100 mcg in this age group; however, the trial also included secondary efficacy measures of pulmonary function. Morning predose FEV 1 was obtained at baseline and Endpoint (last available FEV 1 result) in children aged 6 to 11 years. In subjects receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50, FEV 1 increased from 1.70 L at baseline (n = 79) to 1.88 L at Endpoint (n = 69) compared with an increase from 1.65 L at baseline (n = 83) to 1.77 L at Endpoint (n = 75) in subjects receiving fluticasone propionate 100 mcg. The findings of this trial, along with extrapolation of efficacy data from subjects aged 12 years and older, support the overall conclusion that ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 is efficacious in the treatment of asthma in subjects aged 4 to 11 years. Safety and Efficacy Trials Comparing ADVAIR DISKUS with Fluticasone Propionate Serious Asthma-Related Events: Two 26-week, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, active comparator trials were conducted to compare the safety and efficacy of ADVAIR DISKUS with fluticasone propionate inhalation powder in adult and adolescent subjects (Trial 4, NCT01475721) and in pediatric subjects aged 4 to 11 years (Trial 5, NCT01462344). The primary safety objective of both trials was to evaluate whether the addition of salmeterol xinafoate to fluticasone propionate therapy (ADVAIR DISKUS) was non-inferior to ICS fluticasone propionate in terms of the risk of a serious asthma-related event (hospitalization, endotracheal intubation, and death). The trials were designed to rule out pre-defined risk margins for serious asthma-related events of 2.0 for Trial 4 and 2.7 for Trial 5. A blinded adjudication committee determined whether events were asthma related. Trial 4 enrolled subjects with moderate to severe persistent asthma with a history of asthma-related hospitalization or at least 1 asthma exacerbation in the previous year treated with systemic corticosteroids. A total of 11,679 adult and adolescent subjects [5,834 receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50, ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, or ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 and 5,845 receiving fluticasone propionate inhalation powder (100, 250, or 500 mcg)] were included. Trial 5 enrolled subjects with a diagnosis of asthma and a history of at least 1 asthma exacerbation in the previous year treated with systemic corticosteroid. A total of 6,208 subjects aged 4 to 11 years [3,107 receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 or ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 and 3,101 receiving fluticasone propionate inhalation powder (100 or 250 mcg)] were included. In both trials, subjects with life-threatening asthma were excluded. In Trials 4 and 5, ADVAIR DISKUS was non-inferior to fluticasone propionate in terms of time to first serious asthma-related
[truncated]

## How supplied
16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Product: 50090-4505 NDC: 50090-4505-0 60 POWDER in a INHALER / 1 in a CARTON

## Information for patients
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA-approved patient labeling (Patient Information and Instructions for Use) . Serious Asthma-Related Events Inform patients with asthma that LABA when used alone increases the risk of asthma-related hospitalization or asthma-related death. Available data show that when ICS and LABA are used together, such as with ADVAIR DISKUS, there is not a significant increase in the risk of these events. Not for Acute Symptoms Inform patients that ADVAIR DISKUS is not meant to relieve acute asthma symptoms or exacerbations of COPD and extra doses should not be used for that purpose. Advise patients to treat acute symptoms with an inhaled, short-acting beta 2 -agonist such as albuterol. Provide patients with such medication and instruct them in how it should be used. Instruct patients to seek medical attention immediately if they experience any of the following: • Decreasing effectiveness of inhaled, short-acting beta 2 -agonists • Need for more inhalations than usual of inhaled, short-acting beta 2 -agonists • Significant decrease in lung function as outlined by the physician Tell patients they should not stop therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS without physician/provider guidance since symptoms may recur after discontinuation. Do Not Use Additional Long-acting Beta 2 -agonists Instruct patients not to use other LABA for asthma and COPD. Local Effects Inform patients that localized infections with Candida albicans occurred in the mouth and pharynx in some patients. If oropharyngeal candidiasis develops, treat it with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral) antifungal therapy while still continuing therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS, but at times therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS may need to be temporarily interrupted under close medical supervision. Advise patients to rinse the mouth with water without swallowing after inhalation to help reduce the risk of thrush. Pneumonia Patients with COPD have a higher risk of pneumonia; instruct them to contact their healthcare providers if they develop symptoms of pneumonia. Immunosuppression Warn patients who are on immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids to avoid exposure to chickenpox or measles and, if exposed, to consult their physicians without delay. Inform patients of potential worsening of existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression Advise patients that ADVAIR DISKUS may cause systemic corticosteroid effects of hypercorticism and adrenal suppression. Additionally, inform patients that deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids. Patients should taper slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients that immediate hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., urticaria, angioedema, rash, bronchospasm, hypotension), including anaphylaxis, may occur after administration of ADVAIR DISKUS. Patients should discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS if such reactions occur. There have been reports of anaphylactic reactions in patients with severe milk protein allergy after inhalation of powder products containing lactose; therefore, patients with severe milk protein allergy should not take ADVAIR DISKUS. Reduction in Bone Mineral Density Advise patients who are at an increased risk for decreased BMD that the use of corticosteroids may pose an additional risk. Reduced Growth Velocity Inform patients that orally inhaled corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate, may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Physicians should closely follow the growth of children and adolescents taking corticosteroids by any route. Glaucoma and Cataracts Advise patients that long-term use of ICS may increase the risk of some eye problems (cataracts or glaucoma); consider regular eye examinations. Risks Associated with Beta-agonist Therapy Inform patients of adverse effects associated with beta 2 -agonists, such as palpitations, chest pain, rapid heart rate, tremor, or nervousness. Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GlaxoSmithKline Durham, NC 27701 ©2023 GSK group of companies or its licensor. ADD:18PI

