effective_time:
  20201208
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients citric acid, cocamide DEA, hydroxyethylcellulose, isopropyl alcohol, lauramine oxide, purified water.
purpose:
  Purposes surgical hand scrub healthcare personnel handwash skin wound and general skin cleansing
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
warnings:
  Warnings For external use only Allergy alert This product may cause a severe allergic reaction. Symptoms may include: wheezing/difficulty breathing shock facial swelling hives rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use if you or the patient is allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product in contact with meninges in the genital area When using this product keep out of eyes, ears, and mouth. May cause serious and permanent eye injury if permitted to enter and remain in the eye or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums. if solution should contact these areas, rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when advised by a health care provider Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation, sensitization, or allergic reaction occurs. These may be signs of a serious condition. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
  Warning This product contains a chemical (cocamide DEA) known in the State of California to cause cancer.
when_using:
  When using this product keep out of eyes, ears, and mouth. May cause serious and permanent eye injury if permitted to enter and remain in the eye or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums. if solution should contact these areas, rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when advised by a health care provider
questions:
  Questions or comments? call 1-866-783-0422 Monday through Friday 8:00 AM to 4:30 PM EST
spl_product_data_elements:
  Bactoshield CHG Chlorhexidine Gluconate Chlorhexidine Gluconate Chlorhexidine Citric Acid Monohydrate COCO DIETHANOLAMIDE HYDROXYETHYL CELLULOSE (100 MPA.S At 2%) ISOPROPYL ALCOHOL LAURAMINE OXIDE WATER Clear
openfda:
version:
  2
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age. These products may cause irritation or chemical burns. Surgical hand scrub wet hands and forearms with water scrub for 3 minutes with about 5 mL of product and a wet brush, paying close attention to the nails, cuticles, and interdigital spaces a separate nail cleaner may be used rinse thoroughly wash for an additional 3 minutes with 5 mL of product and rinse under running water dry thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash wet hands with water dispense about 5 mL of product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for 15 seconds rinse and dry thoroughly Skin wound and general skin cleansing thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently rinse again thoroughly
spl_unclassified_section:
  Drug Facts
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation, sensitization, or allergic reaction occurs. These may be signs of a serious condition.
storage_and_handling:
  Other information store at 20-25°C (68-77°F) avoid excessive heat above 40°C (104°F)
do_not_use:
  Do not use if you or the patient is allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product in contact with meninges in the genital area
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 946 mL Bottle Label Bactoshield ® CHG 2% deb med ® NDC 11084-814-24 Surgical Scrub 2% Solution Antiseptic Chlorhexidine Gluconate Surgical Scrub 2% CHG Antimicrobial REORDER # 1322 - 24 Net Contents: 946mL (32 fl oz) 61335 1322-21J(218) 2BACT32BTLLBLI PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 946 mL Bottle Label
indications_and_usage:
  Uses surgical hand scrub: significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care healthcare personnel handwash: helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease skin wound and general skin cleansing
set_id:
  7202604f-b600-4834-a741-c965776b6bc2
id:
  c759f54c-c2f1-418f-8564-72fa6de03210
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient Chlorhexidine gluconate 2% solution
