Drug: Darzalex
OpenFDA brand names: Darzalex Faspro
Drug ID: darzalex
Generic name: DARATUMUMAB AND HYALURONIDASE-FIHJ (HUMAN RECOMBINANT)
Manufacturer: Janssen Biotech, Inc.
NDC: 57894-503
Application number: BLA761145
RxCUI: 2375136, 2375141
Route: SUBCUTANEOUS
Pharmacologic class: CD38-directed Cytolytic Antibody [EPC], Endoglycosidase [EPC]
Source: openFDA drug label

## Indications and usage
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE DARZALEX FASPRO is a combination of daratumumab, a CD38-directed cytolytic antibody, and hyaluronidase, an endoglycosidase, indicated for the treatment of adult patients with: multiple myeloma in combination with bortezomib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone for induction and consolidation in newly diagnosed patients who are eligible for autologous stem cell transplant multiple myeloma in combination with bortezomib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone in newly diagnosed patients who are ineligible for autologous stem cell transplant multiple myeloma in combination with bortezomib, melphalan and prednisone in newly diagnosed patients who are ineligible for autologous stem cell transplant multiple myeloma in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone in newly diagnosed patients who are ineligible for autologous stem cell transplant and in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy multiple myeloma in combination with bortezomib, thalidomide, and dexamethasone in newly diagnosed patients who are eligible for autologous stem cell transplant multiple myeloma in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone in patients who have received at least one prior therapy multiple myeloma in combination with pomalidomide and dexamethasone in patients who have received at least one prior line of therapy including lenalidomide and a proteasome inhibitor multiple myeloma in combination with carfilzomib and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who have received one to three prior lines of therapy multiple myeloma as monotherapy, in patients who have received at least three prior lines of therapy including a proteasome inhibitor (PI) and an immunomodulatory agent or who are double-refractory to a PI and an immunomodulatory agent high-risk smoldering multiple myeloma as monotherapy light chain (AL) amyloidosis in combination with bortezomib, cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone in newly diagnosed patients. Limitations of Use: DARZALEX FASPRO is not indicated and is not recommended for the treatment of patients with light chain (AL) amyloidosis who have NYHA Class IIIB or Class IV cardiac disease or Mayo Stage IIIB outside of controlled clinical trials ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Multiple Myeloma DARZALEX FASPRO is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with [see Clinical Studies (14) ] : multiple myeloma in combination with bortezomib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone for induction and consolidation in newly diagnosed patients who are eligible for autologous stem cell transplant. multiple myeloma in combination with bortezomib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone in newly diagnosed patients who are ineligible for autologous stem cell transplant. multiple myeloma in combination with bortezomib, melphalan and prednisone in newly diagnosed patients who are ineligible for autologous stem cell transplant. multiple myeloma in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone in newly diagnosed patients who are ineligible for autologous stem cell transplant and in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy. multiple myeloma in combination with bortezomib, thalidomide, and dexamethasone in newly diagnosed patients who are eligible for autologous stem cell transplant. multiple myeloma in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone in patients who have received at least one prior therapy. multiple myeloma in combination with pomalidomide and dexamethasone in patients who have received at least one prior line of therapy including lenalidomide and a proteasome inhibitor. multiple myeloma in combination with carfilzomib and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who have received one to three prior lines of therapy. multiple myeloma as monotherapy, in patients who have received at least three prior lines of therapy including a proteasome inhibitor (PI) and an immunomodulatory agent or who are double-refractory to a PI and an immunomodulatory agent. 1.2 High-Risk Smoldering Multiple Myeloma DARZALEX FASPRO as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with high-risk smoldering multiple myeloma. 1.3 Light Chain Amyloidosis DARZALEX FASPRO in combination with bortezomib, cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed light chain (AL) amyloidosis. Limitations of Use DARZALEX FASPRO is not indicated and is not recommended for the treatment of patients with light chain (AL) amyloidosis who have NYHA Class IIIB or Class IV cardiac disease or Mayo Stage IIIB outside of controlled clinical trials [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] .

## Dosage and administration
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For subcutaneous use only. Pre-medicate with a corticosteroid, acetaminophen and a histamine-1 receptor antagonist. ( 2.6 ) The recommended dosage of DARZALEX FASPRO is (1,800 mg daratumumab and 30,000 units hyaluronidase) administered subcutaneously into the abdomen over approximately 3 to 5 minutes according to recommended schedule. ( 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 ) Administer post-medications as recommended. ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Dosing Information DARZALEX FASPRO is for subcutaneous use only. Administer medications before and after administration of DARZALEX FASPRO to minimize administration-related reactions [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] . Type and screen patients prior to starting DARZALEX FASPRO. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Multiple Myeloma The recommended dose of DARZALEX FASPRO is 1,800 mg/30,000 units (1,800 mg daratumumab and 30,000 units hyaluronidase) administered subcutaneously over approximately 3 to 5 minutes. Tables 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 provide the recommended dosing schedule when DARZALEX FASPRO is administered as monotherapy or as part of a combination therapy. Monotherapy and In Combination with Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone (DARZALEX FASPRO-Rd), Pomalidomide and Dexamethasone (DARZALEX FASPRO-Pd) or Carfilzomib and Dexamethasone (DARZALEX FASPRO-Kd) Use the dosing schedule provided in Table 1 when DARZALEX FASPRO is administered: in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone (4-week cycle) OR in combination with pomalidomide and dexamethasone (4-week cycle) OR in combination with carfilzomib and dexamethasone (4-week cycle) OR as monotherapy. Table 1: DARZALEX FASPRO dosing schedule in combination with lenalidomide, pomalidomide or carfilzomib and dexamethasone (4-week cycle) and for monotherapy Weeks Schedule Weeks 1 to 8 weekly (total of 8 doses) Weeks 9 to 24 First dose of the every-2-week dosing schedule is given at Week 9 every two weeks (total of 8 doses) Week 25 onwards until disease progression First dose of the every-4-week dosing schedule is given at Week 25 every four weeks When DARZALEX FASPRO is administered as part of a combination therapy, see Clinical Studies (14.2) and the prescribing information for dosage recommendations for the other drugs. In Combination with Bortezomib, Melphalan and Prednisone (DARZALEX FASPRO-VMP) Use the dosing schedule provided in Table 2 when DARZALEX FASPRO is administered in combination with bortezomib, melphalan and prednisone (6-week cycle). Table 2: DARZALEX FASPRO dosing schedule in combination with bortezomib, melphalan and prednisone (6-week cycle) Weeks Schedule Weeks 1 to 6 weekly (total of 6 doses) Weeks 7 to 54 First dose of the every-3-week dosing schedule is given at Week 7 every three weeks (total of 16 doses) Week 55 onwards until disease progression First dose of the every-4-week dosing schedule is given at Week 55 every four weeks When DARZALEX FASPRO is administered as part of a combination therapy, see Clinical Studies (14.1) and the prescribing information for dosage recommendations for the other drugs. In Combination with Bortezomib, Thalidomide, and Dexamethasone (DARZALEX FASPRO-VTd) Use the dosing schedule in Table 3 when DARZALEX FASPRO is administered in combination with bortezomib, thalidomide, and dexamethasone (4-week cycle). Table 3: DARZALEX FASPRO dosing schedule in combination with bortezomib, thalidomide and dexamethasone (4-week cycle) Treatment phase Weeks Schedule Induction Weeks 1 to 8 weekly (total of 8 doses) Weeks 9 to 16 First dose of the every-2-week dosing schedule is given at Week 9 every two weeks (total of 4 doses) Stop for high dose chemotherapy and ASCT Consolidation Weeks 1 to 8 First dose of the every-2-week dosing schedule is given at Week 1 upon re-initiation of treatment following ASCT every two weeks (total of 4 doses) When DARZALEX FASPRO is administered as part of a combination therapy, see the prescribing information for dosage recommendations for the other drugs. In Combination with Bortezomib, Lenalidomide, and Dexamethasone (DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd) for Patients Eligible for Autologous Stem Cell Transplant (ASCT) Use the dosing schedule in Table 4 when DARZALEX FASPRO is administered in combination with bortezomib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone (4-week cycle) for treatment of newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients eligible for ASCT. Table 4: DARZALEX FASPRO dosing schedule in combination with bortezomib, lenalidomide and dexamethasone (4-week cycle) Treatment phase Weeks Schedule Induction Weeks 1 to 8 weekly (total of 8 doses) Weeks 9 to 16 First dose of the every-2-week dosing schedule is given at Week 9 every two weeks (total of 4 doses) Stop for high dose chemotherapy and ASCT Consolidation Weeks 1 to 8 First dose of the every-2-week dosing schedule is given at Week 1 upon re-initiation of treatment following ASCT every two weeks (total of 4 doses) When DARZALEX FASPRO is administered as part of a combination therapy, see Clinical Studies (14.1) and the prescribing information for dosage recommendations for the other drugs. In Combination with Bortezomib, Lenalidomide, and Dexamethasone (DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd) for Patients Who Are Ineligible for ASCT Use the dosing schedule in Table 5 when DARZALEX FASPRO is administered in combination with bortezomib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone (3-week cycle) for treatment of newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients who are ineligible for ASCT. Table 5: DARZALEX FASPRO dosing schedule in combination with bortezomib, lenalidomide and dexamethasone (3-week cycle) Weeks Schedule Weeks 1 to 6 weekly (total of 6 doses) Weeks 7 to 24 First dose of the every-3-week dosing schedule is given at Week 7 every three weeks (total of 6 doses) Week 25 onwards until disease progression First dose of the every-4-week dosing schedule is given at Week 25 every four weeks When DARZALEX FASPRO is administered as part of a combination therapy, see Clinical Studies (14.1) and the prescribing information for dosage recommendations for the other drugs. In Combination with Bortezomib and Dexamethasone (DARZALEX FASPRO-Vd) Use the dosing schedule in Table 6 when DARZALEX FASPRO is administered in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone (3-week cycle). Table 6: DARZALEX FASPRO dosing schedule in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone (3-week cycle) Weeks Schedule Weeks 1 to 9 weekly (total of 9 doses) Weeks 10 to 24 First dose of the every-3-week dosing schedule is given at Week 10 every three weeks (total of 5 doses) Week 25 onwards until disease progression First dose of the every-4-week dosing schedule is given at Week 25 every four weeks When DARZALEX FASPRO is administered as part of a combination therapy, see the prescribing information for dosage recommendations for the other drugs. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for High-Risk Smoldering Multiple Myeloma The recommended dose of DARZALEX FASPRO is 1,800 mg/30,000 units (1,800 mg daratumumab and 30,000 units hyaluronidase) administered subcutaneously over approximately 3 to 5 minutes. Use the dosing schedule provided in Table 7 when DARZALEX FASPRO is administered as monotherapy in high-risk smoldering multiple myeloma patients (4-week cycle). Table 7: DARZALEX FASPRO dosing schedule for monotherapy (4-week cycle) Weeks Schedule Weeks 1 to 8 weekly (total of 8 doses) Weeks 9 to 24 First dose of the every-2-week dosing schedule is given at Week 9 every two weeks (total of 8 doses) Week 25 onwards until diagnosis of multiple myeloma or a maximum of 3 years First dose of the every-4-week dosing schedule is given at Week 25 every four weeks 2.4 Recommended Dosage for Light Chain Amyloidosis In Combination with Bortezomib, Cyclophosphamide and Dexamethasone (DARZALEX FASPRO-VCd) The recommended dose of DARZALEX FASPRO is 1,800 mg/30,000 units (1,800 mg daratumumab and 30,000 units hyaluronidase) administered subcutaneously over approximately 3 to 5 minutes. Use the dosing schedule provided in Table 8 when DARZALEX FASPRO is administered in combination with bortezomib, cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone (4-week cycle). Table 8: DARZALEX FASPRO dosing schedule in combination with bortezomib, cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone (4-week cycle) Weeks Schedule Weeks 1 to 8 weekly (total of 8 doses) Weeks 9 to 24 First dose of the every-2-week dosing schedule is given at Week 9 every two weeks (total of 8 doses) Week 25 onwards until disease progression or a maximum of 2 years First dose of the every-4-week dosing schedule is given at Week 25 every four weeks When DARZALEX FASPRO is administered as part of a combination therapy, see Clinical Studies (14.4) and the prescribing information for dosage recommendations for the other drugs. 2.5 Missed DARZALEX FASPRO Doses If a dose of DARZALEX FASPRO is missed, administer the dose as soon as possible and adjust the dosing schedule to maintain the dosing interval. 2.6 Recommended Concomitant Medications Pre-medication Administer the following pre-medications 1 to 3 hours before each dose of DARZALEX FASPRO: Acetaminophen 650 mg to 1,000 mg orally Diphenhydramine 25 mg to 50 mg (or equivalent) orally or intravenously Corticosteroid (long- or intermediate-acting) Monotherapy Administer methylprednisolone 100 mg (or equivalent) orally or intravenously. Consider reducing the dose of methylprednisolone to 60 mg (or equivalent) following the second dose of DARZALEX FASPRO. In Combination Administer dexamethasone 20 mg (or equivalent) orally or intravenously prior to every DARZALEX FASPRO administration. When dexamethasone is the background regimen-specific corticosteroid, the dexamethasone dose that is part of the background regimen will serve as pre-medication on DARZALEX FASPRO administration days [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . Do not administer background regimen-specific corticosteroids (e.g., prednisone) on DARZALEX FASPRO administration days when patients have received dexamethasone (or equivalent) as a pre-medication. Post-medication Administer the following post-medications: Monotherapy Administer methylprednisolone 20 mg (or an equivalent dose of an intermediate- or long-acting corticosteroid) orally for 2 days starting the day after the administration of DARZALEX FASPRO. In Combination Consider administering oral methylprednisolone at a dose of less than or equal to 20 mg (or an equivalent dose of an intermediate- or long-acting corticosteroid) on the day after administration of DARZALEX FASPRO. If a background regimen-specific corticosteroid (e.g., dexamethasone, prednisone) is administered the day after the administration of DARZALEX FASPRO, additional corticosteroids may not be needed [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . If the patient does not experience a major systemic administration-related reaction after the first 3 doses of DARZALEX FASPRO, consider discontinuing the administration of corticosteroids (excluding any background regimen-specific corticosteroid). For patients with a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, consider prescribing short and long-acting bronchodilators and inhaled corticosteroids. Following the first 4 doses of DARZALEX FASPRO, consider discontinuing these additional post-medications, if the patient does not experience a major systemic administration-related reaction. Prophylaxis for Herpes Zoster Reactivation Initiate antiviral prophylaxis to prevent herpes zoster reactivation within 1 week after starting DARZALEX FASPRO and continue for 3 months following the end of treatment [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. 2.7 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions No dose reductions of DARZALEX FASPRO are recommended. Consider withholding DARZALEX FASPRO to allow recovery of blood cell counts in the event of myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4 , 5.5) ] . 2.8 Preparation and Administration DARZALEX FASPRO should be administered by a healthcare provider. To prevent medication errors, check the vial labels to ensure that the drug being prepared and administered is DA
[truncated]

## Dosage forms and strengths
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection: 1,800 mg daratumumab and 30,000 units hyaluronidase per 15 mL (120 mg and 2,000 units/mL) colorless to yellow and clear to opalescent solution in a single-dose vial. Injection : 1,800 mg daratumumab and 30,000 units hyaluronidase per 15 mL (120 mg and 2,000 units/mL) solution in a single-dose vial ( 3 )

## Contraindications
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS DARZALEX FASPRO is contraindicated in patients with a history of severe hypersensitivity to daratumumab, hyaluronidase or any of the components of the formulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Patients with a history of severe hypersensitivity to daratumumab, hyaluronidase or any of the components of the formulation. ( 4 )

## Warnings and cautions
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypersensitivity and Other Administration Reactions : Permanently discontinue DARZALEX FASPRO for life-threatening reactions. ( 5.1 ) Cardiac Toxicity in Patients with Light Chain (AL) Amyloidosis : Monitor patients with cardiac involvement more frequently for cardiac adverse reactions and administer supportive care as appropriate. ( 5.2 ) Infections : DARZALEX FASPRO can cause serious and fatal infections. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of infection and treat appropriately. ( 5.3 ) Neutropenia : Monitor complete blood cell counts periodically during treatment. Monitor patients with neutropenia for signs of infection. Consider withholding DARZALEX FASPRO to allow recovery of neutrophils. ( 5.4 ) Thrombocytopenia : Monitor complete blood cell counts periodically during treatment. Consider withholding DARZALEX FASPRO to allow recovery of platelets. ( 5.5 ) Embryo-Fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm. Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus and advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception. ( 5.6 , 8.1 , 8.3 ) Interference with cross-matching and red blood cell antibody screening : Type and screen patients prior to starting treatment. Inform blood banks that a patient has received DARZALEX FASPRO. ( 5.7 , 7.1 ) 5.1 Hypersensitivity and Other Administration Reactions Both systemic administration-related reactions, including severe or life-threatening reactions, and local injection-site reactions can occur with DARZALEX FASPRO. Fatal reactions have been reported with daratumumab-containing products, including DARZALEX FASPRO [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . Systemic Reactions In a pooled safety population of 1446 patients with multiple myeloma (N=1253) or light chain (AL) amyloidosis (N=193) who received DARZALEX FASPRO as monotherapy or as part of a combination therapy, 7% of patients experienced a systemic administration-related reaction (Grade 2: 3%, Grade 3: 0.8%, Grade 4: 0.1%). In patients with high-risk smoldering multiple myeloma (N=193), systemic administration-related reactions occurred in 17% of patients in AQUILA (Grade 2: 7%, Grade 3: 1%). In all patients (N=1639), systemic administration-related reactions occurred in 7% of patients with the first injection, 0.5% with the second injection, and cumulatively 1% with subsequent injections. The median time to onset was 3.2 hours (range: 4 minutes to 3.5 days). Of the 283 systemic administration-related reactions that occurred in 135 patients, 240 (85%) occurred on the day of DARZALEX FASPRO administration. Delayed systemic administration-related reactions have occurred in 1% of the patients. Severe reactions include hypoxia, dyspnea, hypertension, and tachycardia, and ocular adverse reactions, including choroidal effusion, acute myopia, and acute angle closure glaucoma. Other signs and symptoms of systemic administration-related reactions may include respiratory symptoms, such as bronchospasm, nasal congestion, cough, throat irritation, allergic rhinitis, and wheezing, as well as anaphylactic reaction, pyrexia, chest pain, pruritus, chills, vomiting, nausea, hypotension, and blurred vision. Pre-medicate patients with histamine-1 receptor antagonist, acetaminophen and corticosteroids [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] . Monitor patients for systemic administration-related reactions, especially following the first and second injections. For anaphylactic reaction or life-threatening (Grade 4) administration-related reactions, immediately and permanently discontinue DARZALEX FASPRO. Consider administering corticosteroids and other medications after the administration of DARZALEX FASPRO depending on dosing regimen and medical history to minimize the risk of delayed (defined as occurring the day after administration) systemic administration-related reactions [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] . Ocular adverse reactions, including acute myopia and narrowing of the anterior chamber angle due to ciliochoroidal effusions with potential for increased intraocular pressure or glaucoma, have occurred with daratumumab-containing products. If ocular symptoms occur, interrupt DARZALEX FASPRO and seek immediate ophthalmologic evaluation prior to restarting DARZALEX FASPRO. Local Reactions In this pooled safety population of 1446 patients with multiple myeloma (N=1253) or light chain (AL) amyloidosis (N=193), injection-site reactions occurred in 8% of patients, including Grade 2 reactions in 1.1%. The most frequent (>1%) injection-site reactions were injection site erythema and injection site rash. In patients with high-risk smoldering multiple myeloma (N=193), injection-site reactions occurred in 28% of patients, including Grade 2 reactions in 3%. These local reactions occurred a median of 6 minutes (range: 0 minutes to 6.5 days) after starting administration of DARZALEX FASPRO. Monitor for local reactions and consider symptomatic management. 5.2 Cardiac Toxicity in Patients with Light Chain (AL) Amyloidosis Serious or fatal cardiac adverse reactions occurred in patients with light chain (AL) amyloidosis who received DARZALEX FASPRO in combination with bortezomib, cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . Serious cardiac disorders occurred in 16% and fatal cardiac disorders occurred in 10% of patients. Patients with NYHA Class IIIA or Mayo Stage IIIA disease may be at greater risk. Patients with NYHA Class IIIB or IV disease were not studied. Monitor patients with cardiac involvement of light chain (AL) amyloidosis more frequently for cardiac adverse reactions and administer supportive care as appropriate. 5.3 Infections DARZALEX FASPRO can cause serious, life-threatening, or fatal infections. In patients who received DARZALEX FASPRO in a pooled safety population including patients with smoldering multiple myeloma and light chain (AL) amyloidosis (N=1639), serious infections, including opportunistic infections, occurred in 24% of patients, Grade 3 or 4 infections occurred in 22%, and fatal infections occurred in 2.5%. The most common type of serious infection reported was pneumonia (8.5%). Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of infection prior to and during treatment with DARZALEX FASPRO and treat appropriately. Administer prophylactic antimicrobials according to guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] . 5.4 Neutropenia Daratumumab may increase neutropenia induced by background therapy [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . Monitor complete blood cell counts periodically during treatment according to manufacturer's prescribing information for background therapies. Monitor patients with neutropenia for signs of infection. Consider withholding DARZALEX FASPRO until recovery of neutrophils. In lower body weight patients receiving DARZALEX FASPRO, higher rates of Grade 3–4 neutropenia were observed. 5.5 Thrombocytopenia Daratumumab may increase thrombocytopenia induced by background therapy [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . Monitor complete blood cell counts periodically during treatment according to manufacturer's prescribing information for background therapies. Consider withholding DARZALEX FASPRO until recovery of platelets. 5.6 Embryo-Fetal Toxicity Based on the mechanism of action, DARZALEX FASPRO can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. DARZALEX FASPRO may cause depletion of fetal immune cells and decreased bone density. Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus. Advise females with reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with DARZALEX FASPRO and for 3 months after the last dose [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , 8.3) ] . The combination of DARZALEX FASPRO with lenalidomide, thalidomide or pomalidomide is contraindicated in pregnant women, because lenalidomide, thalidomide or pomalidomide may cause birth defects and death of the unborn child. Refer to the lenalidomide, thalidomide or pomalidomide prescribing information on use during pregnancy. 5.7 Interference with Serological Testing Daratumumab binds to CD38 on red blood cells (RBCs) and results in a positive Indirect Antiglobulin Test (Indirect Coombs test). Daratumumab-mediated positive indirect antiglobulin test may persist for up to 6 months after the last daratumumab administration. Daratumumab bound to RBCs masks detection of antibodies to minor antigens in the patient's serum [see References (15) ] . The determination of a patient's ABO and Rh blood type are not impacted [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Notify blood transfusion centers of this interference with serological testing and inform blood banks that a patient has received DARZALEX FASPRO. Type and screen patients prior to starting DARZALEX FASPRO [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . 5.8 Interference with Determination of Complete Response Daratumumab is a human IgG kappa monoclonal antibody that can be detected on both the serum protein electrophoresis (SPE) and immunofixation (IFE) assays used for the clinical monitoring of endogenous M-protein [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . This interference can impact the determination of complete response and of disease progression in some DARZALEX FASPRO-treated patients with IgG kappa myeloma protein.

## Adverse reactions
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling: Hypersensitivity and Other Administration Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Cardiac Toxicity in Patients with Light Chain (AL) Amyloidosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Infections [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Neutropenia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Thrombocytopenia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . The most common adverse reactions (≥20%) in patients with multiple myeloma eligible for autologous stem cell transplant who received DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd are peripheral neuropathy, fatigue, upper respiratory infection, constipation, musculoskeletal pain, insomnia, rash, diarrhea, edema, and pyrexia. ( 6.1 ) The most common adverse reactions (≥20%) in patients with multiple myeloma who were ineligible for autologous stem cell transplant who received DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd are upper respiratory tract infection, sensory neuropathy, musculoskeletal pain, diarrhea, fatigue, edema, rash, motor dysfunction, COVID-19, constipation, sleep disorder, cough, pneumonia, renal impairment, dizziness, nausea, urinary tract infection, pyrexia, abdominal pain, dyspnea, decreased appetite, and bruising. ( 6.1 ) The most common adverse reaction (≥20%) in patients with multiple myeloma who received DARZALEX FASPRO monotherapy is upper respiratory tract infection. ( 6.1 ) The most common adverse reactions (≥20%) in patients with multiple myeloma who received DARZALEX FASPRO-VMP are upper respiratory tract infection, constipation, nausea, fatigue, pyrexia, peripheral sensory neuropathy, diarrhea, cough, insomnia, vomiting, and back pain. ( 6.1 ) The most common adverse reactions (≥20%) in patients with multiple myeloma who received DARZALEX FASPRO-Rd are fatigue, diarrhea, upper respiratory tract infection, muscle spasms, constipation, pyrexia, pneumonia, and dyspnea. ( 6.1 ) The most common adverse reactions (≥20%) in patients with multiple myeloma who received DARZALEX FASPRO-Pd are fatigue, pneumonia, upper respiratory tract infection, and diarrhea. ( 6.1 ) The most common adverse reactions (≥20%) in patients with multiple myeloma who received DARZALEX FASPRO-Kd are upper respiratory tract infection, fatigue, insomnia, hypertension, diarrhea, cough, dyspnea, headache, pyrexia, nausea, and edema peripheral. ( 6.1 ) The most common adverse reactions (≥20%) in patients with high-risk smoldering multiple myeloma who received DARZALEX FASPRO monotherapy are upper respiratory tract infection, musculoskeletal pain, fatigue, diarrhea, rash, sleep disorder, sensory neuropathy, and injection site reactions. ( 6.1 ) The most common adverse reactions (≥20%) in patients with light chain (AL) amyloidosis are upper respiratory tract infection, diarrhea, peripheral edema, constipation, fatigue, peripheral sensory neuropathy, nausea, insomnia, dyspnea, and cough. ( 6.1 ) The most common (≥40%) hematology laboratory abnormalities with DARZALEX FASPRO are decreased leukocytes, decreased lymphocytes, decreased neutrophils, decreased platelets, and decreased hemoglobin. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Janssen Biotech, Inc. at 1-800-526-7736 (1-800-JANSSEN) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma Eligible for Autologous Stem Cell Transplant In Combination with Bortezomib, Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone The safety of DARZALEX FASPRO in combination with bortezomib, lenalidomide and dexamethasone (n=351) from the start of induction to the end of consolidation compared to bortezomib, lenalidomide and dexamethasone (VRd) (n=347) was evaluated in PERSEUS [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Patients received DARZALEX FASPRO 1,800 mg/30,000 units administered subcutaneously once weekly from weeks 1 to 8 and once every 2 weeks from weeks 9 to 16 during induction in combination with VRd or VRd alone. After week 16, patients underwent stem cell mobilization, high dose chemotherapy, and ASCT. Within 12 weeks of ASCT, and when engraftment was complete, patients received DARZALEX FASPRO once every 2 weeks from weeks 1 to 8 during consolidation in combination with VRd or VRd alone. The median duration of treatment for induction and consolidation was 9.9 months (0.5 to 18.5 months) for DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd. Serious adverse reactions occurred in 37% of patients who received DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd. The most frequent serious adverse reaction in >5% of patients who received DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd was pneumonia (6%). Fatal adverse reactions occurred in 1.7% of patients who received DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd. Permanent treatment discontinuation due to an adverse reaction occurred in 2% of patients who received DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd. An adverse reaction which resulted in permanent discontinuation of DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd in more than 1 patient included sepsis. The most common adverse reactions (≥20%) were peripheral neuropathy, fatigue, upper respiratory infection, constipation, musculoskeletal pain, insomnia, rash, diarrhea, edema, and pyrexia. Table 9 summarizes the adverse reactions in patients who received DARZALEX FASPRO in PERSEUS. Table 9: Adverse Reactions (≥10%) in Patients Who Received DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd through the End of Consolidation in PERSEUS Adverse Reaction DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd (N=351) VRd (N=347) All Grades (%) Grade 3 or 4 (%) All Grades (%) Grade 3 or 4 (%) Key: VRd=bortezomib-lenalidomide-dexamethasone Nervous system disorders Peripheral neuropathy Peripheral neuropathy includes neuropathy peripheral, peripheral motor neuropathy, peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy, and peripheral sensory neuropathy. 52 5 54 4 Paresthesia 11 <1 Only Grade 3 adverse reactions occurred. 11 <1 General disorders and administration site conditions Fatigue Includes other related terms. 35 3 37 5 Edema 22 1 21 1 Pyrexia 21 2 22 3 Infections Upper respiratory tract infection Upper respiratory tract infection includes fungal pharyngitis, h1n1 influenza, influenza, influenza like illness, laryngitis, nasopharyngitis, oral candidiasis, oropharyngeal candidiasis, parainfluenzae virus infection, pharyngitis, respiratory moniliasis, respiratory syncytial virus infection, respiratory tract infection, respiratory tract infection viral, rhinitis, rhinovirus infection, sinusitis, tonsillitis, upper respiratory tract infection, viral tonsillitis, and viral upper respiratory tract infection. 32 1 26 2 Pneumonia Pneumonia includes bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, lower respiratory tract infection, pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, pneumonia, pneumonia bacterial, pneumonia cytomegaloviral, pneumonia influenzal, pneumonia klebsiella, pneumonia legionella, and pneumonia streptococcal. 14 9 10 6 Fatal adverse reactions included Pneumonia: n=1 (0.3%) in the VRd arm. Gastrointestinal disorders Constipation 31 2 30 2 Diarrhea 23 3 25 5 Nausea 16 1 12 1 Abdominal pain 11 0 12 0 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Musculoskeletal pain 26 1 23 1 Muscle spasm 12 0 9 <1 Psychiatric disorders Insomnia 26 2 16 2 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Rash 25 3 31 5 Hepatobiliary disorders Hepatotoxicity Hepatotoxicity includes alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, hepatic cytolysis, hepatic failure, hepatic function abnormal, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia, hypertransaminasemia, and liver disorder 16 6 16 5 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 12 <1 8 0 Clinically relevant adverse reactions in <10% of patients who received DARZALEX FASPRO with bortezomib, lenalidomide and dexamethasone include: Gastrointestinal disorders: vomiting, hemorrhoids Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: arthralgia Infections: bronchitis, sepsis, urinary tract infection, herpes zoster, Covid-19, cytomegalovirus infection Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders: dyspnea, pulmonary edema Metabolism and nutrition disorders: hypocalcemia, decreased appetite, hyperglycemia, dehydration Vascular disorders: hypotension, hypertension, orthostatic hypotension General disorders and administration site conditions: infusion reactions, injection site reaction, chills Nervous system disorders: dizziness, headache, syncope Cardiac disorders: thrombosis, atrial fibrillation, tachycardia Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: pruritus Table 10 summarizes the laboratory abnormalities in patients who received DARZALEX FASPRO in PERSEUS. Table 10: Select Laboratory Abnormalities (≥30%) That Worsened from Baseline in Patients Who Received DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd through the End of Consolidation in PERSEUS Laboratory Abnormality DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd Denominator is based on number of subjects with a baseline and post-baseline laboratory value for each laboratory test: N=351 for DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd and N=346 for VRd. VRd All Grades (%) Grade 3 or4 (%) All Grades (%) Grade 3 or 4 (%) Key: VRd=bortezomib-lenalidomide-dexamethasone Hematology Decreased platelets 89 34 78 25 Decreased lymphocytes 87 69 69 43 Decreased leukocytes 78 47 56 22 Decreased neutrophils 67 52 47 34 Decreased hemoglobin 39 7 43 6 Chemistry Increased alanine aminotransferase (ALT) 52 7 48 5 Decreased sodium 40 5 25 5 Increased alkaline phosphatase 39 0 36 1 Decreased potassium 30 6 24 3 Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma Ineligible for Autologous Stem Cell Transplant In Combination with Bortezomib, Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone The safety of DARZALEX FASPRO in combination with bortezomib, lenalidomide and dexamethasone compared to bortezomib, lenalidomide and dexamethasone (VRd) was evaluated in CEPHEUS in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who were ineligible for ASCT or refused ASCT as initial therapy [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Patients received DARZALEX FASPRO 1,800 mg/30,000 units administered subcutaneously once weekly from weeks 1 to 6, once every 3 weeks from weeks 7 to 24 and once every 4 weeks starting with week 25 until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity in combination with VRd (n=197) or VRd alone (n=195). The median duration of treatment was 56.3 months (0.1 to 64.6 months) for DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd and 34.3 months (0.5 to 63.8 months) for VRd. Serious adverse reactions occurred in 72% of patients who received DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd. The most frequent serious adverse reactions in >5% of patients who received DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd were pneumonia (19%), COVID-19 (12%), thromboembolism (7%), and diarrhea (6%). Fatal adverse reactions occurred in 16.8% of patients who received DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd. Fatal adverse reactions that occurred in more than 1 patient included pneumonia (4%), COVID-19 (4%), and myocardial infarction (2%). Permanent treatment discontinuation due to an adverse reaction occurred in 8% of patients who received DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd. An adverse reaction which resulted in permanent discontinuation of DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd in more than 1 patient included pneumonia. The most common adverse reactions (≥20%) were upper respiratory tract infection, sensory neuropathy, musculoskeletal pain, diarrhea, fatigue, edema, rash, motor dysfunction, COVID-19, constipation, sleep disorder, cough, pneumonia, renal impairment, dizziness, nausea, urinary tract infection, pyrexia, abdominal pain, dyspnea, decreased appetite, and bruising. Table 11 summarized the adverse reactions in patients who received DARZALEX FASPRO in CEPHEUS. Table 11: Adverse Reactions Reported in ≥20% of Patients Who Received DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd in CEPHEUS Adverse Reaction DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd (N=197) VRd (N=195) All Grades (%) Grade 3 or 4 (%) All Grades (%) Grade 3 or 4 (%) Key: VRd=bortezomib-lenalidomide dexamethasone Infections Upper respiratory tract infection Upper
[truncated]

## Drug interactions
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Effects of Daratumumab on Laboratory Tests Interference with Indirect Antiglobulin Tests (Indirect Coombs Test) Daratumumab binds to CD38 on RBCs and interferes with compatibility testing, including antibody screening and cross matching. Daratumumab interference mitigation methods include treating reagent RBCs with dithiothreitol (DTT) to disrupt daratumumab binding [see References (15) ] or genotyping. Since the Kell blood group system is also sensitive to DTT treatment, supply K-negative units after ruling out or identifying alloantibodies using DTT-treated RBCs. If an emergency transfusion is required, administer non-cross-matched ABO/RhD-compatible RBCs per local blood bank practices. Interference with Serum Protein Electrophoresis and Immunofixation Tests Daratumumab may be detected on serum protein electrophoresis (SPE) and immunofixation (IFE) assays used for monitoring disease monoclonal immunoglobulins (M protein). False positive SPE and IFE assay results may occur for patients with IgG kappa myeloma protein impacting initial assessment of complete responses by International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria. In DARZALEX FASPRO-treated patients with persistent very good partial response, where daratumumab interference is suspected, consider using a FDA-approved daratumumab-specific IFE assay to distinguish daratumumab from any remaining endogenous M protein in the patient's serum, to facilitate determination of a complete response.

## Use in specific populations
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary DARZALEX FASPRO can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. The assessment of associated risks with daratumumab products is based on the mechanism of action and data from target antigen CD38 knockout animal models (see Data ) . There are no available data on the use of DARZALEX FASPRO in pregnant women to evaluate drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2% to 4% and 15% to 20%, respectively. The combination of DARZALEX FASPRO and lenalidomide, thalidomide or pomalidomide is contraindicated in pregnant women, because lenalidomide, thalidomide and pomalidomide may cause birth defects and death of the unborn child. Lenalidomide, thalidomide and pomalidomide are only available through a REMS program. Refer to the lenalidomide, thalidomide or pomalidomide prescribing information on use during pregnancy. Clinical Considerations Fetal/Neonatal Adverse Reactions Immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) monoclonal antibodies are transferred across the placenta. Based on its mechanism of action, DARZALEX FASPRO may cause depletion of fetal CD38 positive immune cells and decreased bone density. Defer administering live vaccines to neonates and infants exposed to daratumumab in utero until a hematology evaluation is completed. Data Animal Data DARZALEX FASPRO for subcutaneous injection contains daratumumab and hyaluronidase . Mice that were genetically modified to eliminate all CD38 expression (CD38 knockout mice) had reduced bone density at birth that recovered by 5 months of age. Data from studies using CD38 knockout animal models also suggest the involvement of CD38 in the regulation of humoral immune responses (mice), feto-maternal immune tolerance (mice), and early embryonic development (frogs). No systemic exposure of hyaluronidase was detected in monkeys given 220,000 U/kg subcutaneously (440 times higher than the human dose) and there were no effects on embryo-fetal development in pregnant mice given 360,000 U/kg hyaluronidase subcutaneously daily during organogenesis, which is 720 times higher than the human dose. There were no effects on pre- and post-natal development through sexual maturity in offspring of mice treated daily from implantation through lactation with 1,100,000 U/kg hyaluronidase subcutaneously, which is 2,200 times higher than the human doses. 8.2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no data on the presence of daratumumab and hyaluronidase in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production. Maternal immunoglobulin G is known to be present in human milk. Published data suggest that antibodies in breast milk do not enter the neonatal and infant circulations in substantial amounts. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child when DARZALEX FASPRO is administered with lenalidomide, thalidomide or pomalidomide, advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with DARZALEX FASPRO. Refer to lenalidomide, thalidomide or pomalidomide prescribing information for additional information. Data Animal Data No systemic exposure of hyaluronidase was detected in monkeys given 220,000 U/kg subcutaneously (440 times higher than the human dose) and there were no effects on post-natal development through sexual maturity in offspring of mice treated daily during lactation with 1,100,000 U/kg hyaluronidase subcutaneously, which is 2,200 times higher than the human doses. 8.3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential DARZALEX FASPRO can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] . Pregnancy Testing With the combination of DARZALEX FASPRO with lenalidomide, thalidomide or pomalidomide, refer to the lenalidomide, thalidomide or pomalidomide labeling for pregnancy testing requirements prior to initiating treatment in females of reproductive potential. Contraception Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with DARZALEX FASPRO and for 3 months after the last dose. Additionally, refer to the lenalidomide, thalidomide or pomalidomide labeling for additional recommendations for contraception. 8.4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of DARZALEX FASPRO in pediatric patients have not been established. 8.5 Geriatric Use Of the 291 patients who received DARZALEX FASPRO as monotherapy for relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma, 37% were 65 to <75 years of age, and 19% were 75 years of age and older. No overall differences in effectiveness of DARZALEX FASPRO have been observed between patients ≥65 years of age and younger patients . Adverse reactions that occurred at a higher frequency (≥5% difference) in patients ≥65 years of age included upper respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection, dizziness, cough, dyspnea, diarrhea, nausea, fatigue, and peripheral edema. Serious adverse reactions that occurred at a higher frequency (≥2% difference) in patients ≥65 years of age included pneumonia. Of the 214 patients who received DARZALEX FASPRO as combination therapy with pomalidomide and dexamethasone or DARZALEX FASPRO as combination therapy with lenalidomide and low-dose dexamethasone for relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma, 43% were 65 to <75 years of age, and 18% were 75 years of age and older. No overall differences in effectiveness were observed between patients ≥65 years (n=131) and <65 years (n=85). Adverse reactions occurring at a higher frequency (≥5% difference) in patients ≥65 years of age included fatigue, pyrexia, peripheral edema, urinary tract infection, diarrhea, constipation, vomiting, dyspnea, cough, and hyperglycemia. Serious adverse reactions occurring at a higher frequency (≥2% difference) in patients ≥65 years of age included neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, diarrhea, anemia, COVID-19, ischemic colitis, deep vein thrombosis, general physical health deterioration, pulmonary embolism, and urinary tract infection. Of the 355 patients who were newly diagnosed with multiple myeloma and eligible for ASCT who received DARZALEX FASPRO as combination therapy with bortezomib, lenalidomide and dexamethasone during induction and consolidation in the clinical trial, 74% were <65 years of age, and 26% were 65 to 70 years of age. The clinical trial did not enroll patients older than 70 years of age [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . No overall differences in effectiveness of DARZALEX FASPRO in combination with bortezomib, lenalidomide and dexamethasone were observed between patients <65 years of age compared to patients 65 to 70 years of age. Adverse reactions that occurred at a higher frequency (≥5% difference) in patients 65 to 70 years of age included constipation, hemorrhoids, nausea, injection site erythema, bronchitis, nasopharyngitis, back pain, myalgia, pain in extremity, dysgeusia, peripheral motor neuropathy, and insomnia. Serious adverse reactions that occurred at a higher frequency (≥2% difference) in patients 65 to 70 years of age included febrile bone marrow aplasia, atrial fibrillation, pyrexia, and orthostatic hypotension. Of the 197 patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma in CEPHEUS who received DARZALEX FASPRO as combination therapy with bortezomib, lenalidomide and dexamethasone, 61% were 65 to <75 years of age, and 21% were 75 years of age and older. The clinical trial did not enroll patients over age 80 [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . No overall differences in effectiveness of DARZALEX FASPRO in combination with bortezomib, lenalidomide and dexamethasone were observed between younger patients and patients ≥75 years. Adverse reactions occurring at a higher frequency (≥5% difference) in patients ≥75 years of age included sensory neuropathy, diarrhea, fatigue, constipation, renal impairment, dizziness, pyrexia, rash, dyspnea, fracture, arrhythmia, decreased appetite, urinary tract infection, injection site reaction, encephalopathy, vomiting, taste disorder, and herpes. Serious adverse reactions occurring at a higher frequency (≥5% difference) in patients ≥75 years of age included urinary tract infection, upper respiratory tract infection, diarrhea, and encephalopathy. Of the 193 patients who received DARZALEX FASPRO as monotherapy for high-risk smoldering multiple myeloma, 35% (n=67) were 65 to <75 years of age, and 11% (n=21) were 75 years of age and older. No overall difference in effectiveness were observed between patients 65 to 75 years (n=67) and <65 years (n=105); there were too few patients 75 years of age and older to assess for a difference in effectiveness. Adverse reactions that occurred at a higher frequency (≥5% difference) in patients ≥65 years of age were pneumonia, dizziness, arrhythmia, hemorrhage, arthritis, and cataract. Serious adverse reactions occurring at a higher frequency (≥5% difference) in patients ≥65 years of age included pneumonia and fracture. Of the 193 patients who received DARZALEX FASPRO as part of a combination therapy for light chain (AL) amyloidosis, 35% were 65 to <75 years of age, and 10% were 75 years of age and older. Clinical studies of DARZALEX FASPRO as part of a combination therapy for patients with light chain (AL) amyloidosis did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and older to determine whether effectiveness differs from that of younger patients. Adverse reactions that occurred at a higher frequency in patients ≥65 years of age were peripheral edema, asthenia, pneumonia and hypotension. No clinically meaningful differences in the pharmacokinetics of daratumumab were observed in geriatric patients compared to younger adult patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] .

## Description
11 DESCRIPTION Daratumumab is an immunoglobulin G1 kappa (IgG1κ) human monoclonal antibody that binds to the CD38 antigen. Daratumumab is produced in Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells using recombinant DNA technology. The molecular weight of daratumumab is approximately 148 kDa. Hyaluronidase (recombinant human) is an endoglycosidase used to increase the dispersion and absorption of co-administered drugs when administered subcutaneously. It is a glycosylated single-chain protein produced by Chinese Hamster Ovary cells containing a DNA plasmid encoding for a soluble fragment of human hyaluronidase (PH20). Hyaluronidase (recombinant human) has a molecular weight of approximately 61 kDa. DARZALEX FASPRO ® (daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj) injection is a sterile, preservative-free, colorless to yellow, and clear to opalescent solution supplied in a single-dose vial for subcutaneous administration. Each DARZALEX FASPRO 15 mL single-dose vial contains 1,800 mg of daratumumab and 30,000 units of hyaluronidase, L-histidine (4.9 mg), L-histidine hydrochloride monohydrate (18.4 mg), L-methionine (13.5 mg), polysorbate 20 (6 mg), sorbitol (735.1 mg), and Water for Injection, USP.

## Clinical pharmacology
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action CD38 is a transmembrane glycoprotein (48 kDa) expressed on the surface of hematopoietic cells, including clonal plasma cells in multiple myeloma and light chain (AL) amyloidosis, as well as other cell types. Surface CD38 has multiple functions, including receptor mediated adhesion, signaling, and modulation of cyclase and hydrolase activity. Daratumumab is an IgG1κ human monoclonal antibody (mAb) that binds to CD38 and inhibits the growth of CD38 expressing tumor cells by inducing apoptosis directly through Fc mediated cross linking as well as by immune-mediated tumor cell lysis through complement dependent cytotoxicity (CDC), antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) and antibody dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP). A subset of myeloid derived suppressor cells (CD38+MDSCs), regulatory T cells (CD38+T regs ) and B cells (CD38+B regs ) are decreased by daratumumab. Hyaluronan is a polysaccharide found in the extracellular matrix of the subcutaneous tissue. It is depolymerized by the naturally occurring enzyme hyaluronidase. Unlike the stable structural components of the interstitial matrix, hyaluronan has a half-life of approximately 0.5 days. Hyaluronidase increases permeability of the subcutaneous tissue by depolymerizing hyaluronan. In the doses administered, hyaluronidase in DARZALEX FASPRO acts locally. The effects of hyaluronidase are reversible and permeability of the subcutaneous tissue is restored within 24 to 48 hours. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics NK cells express CD38 and are susceptible to daratumumab mediated cell lysis. Decreases in absolute counts and percentages of total NK cells (CD16+CD56+) and activated (CD16+CD56 dim ) NK cells in peripheral whole blood and bone marrow were observed with DARZALEX FASPRO treatment. Cardiac Electrophysiology DARZALEX FASPRO as a large protein has a low likelihood of direct ion channel interactions. There is no evidence from non-clinical or clinical data to suggest that DARZALEX FASPRO has the potential to delay ventricular repolarization. Exposure-Response Relationship The exposure-response relationship and time course of pharmacodynamics of DARZALEX FASPRO have not been fully characterized. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Following the recommended dose of DARZALEX FASPRO 1,800 mg/30,000 units subcutaneously once weekly for 8 weeks, daratumumab peak concentration (C max ) increased 4.8-fold and area under the curve (AUC 0–7 days ) increased 5.4-fold from the 1 st dose to the 8 th dose as monotherapy. Maximum trough concentrations for DARZALEX FASPRO are typically observed at the end of the weekly dosing regimens for both monotherapy and combination therapies. The mean ± standard deviation (SD) maximum trough serum concentration (C trough ) after the 8 th dose was 593 ± 306 µg/mL when DARZALEX FASPRO was administered as monotherapy in patients with multiple myeloma, 654 ± 243 µg/mL when DARZALEX FASPRO was administered as monotherapy in patients with smoldering multiple myeloma, and 537 ± 277 µg/mL, 526 ± 226 µg/mL, 756 ± 276 µg/mL, and 526 ± 209 µg/mL when DARZALEX FASPRO was administered as combination with Pd, Rd, Kd, and VRd in the PERSEUS trial, respectively. The observed mean ± SD maximum C trough after the 6 th dose was 407 ± 183 µg/mL when DARZALEX FASPRO was administered as combination with VRd in the CEPHEUS trial. Table 27 lists the observed mean (±SD) maximum trough concentrations (C trough ) after the 8 th dose, simulated median (5 th –95 th percentiles) maximum C trough after the 8 th dose, simulated median (5 th –95 th percentiles) C max after the 8 th dose, and simulated median (5 th –95 th percentiles) area under the curve (AUC 0–7day ) after the 8 th dose following DARZALEX FASPRO 1,800 mg/30,000 units administered subcutaneously or daratumumab 16 mg/kg administered intravenously in patients with multiple myeloma, smoldering multiple myeloma or light chain (AL) amyloidosis. Daratumumab exposures were similar between patients treated with DARZALEX FASPRO 1,800 mg/30,000 units monotherapy and combination therapies. Table 27: Daratumumab Exposure for Patients with Multiple Myeloma or Light Chain (AL) Amyloidosis Following 8 Weekly Doses Parameter Intravenous Daratumumab 16 mg/kg Monotherapy in Patients with Multiple Myeloma DARZALEX FASPRO 1,800 mg/30,000 units Monotherapy in Patients with Multiple Myeloma DARZALEX FASPRO 1,800 mg/30,000 units Monotherapy in Patients with Smoldering Multiple Myeloma DARZALEX FASPRO 1,800 mg/30,000 units in combination with VRd in Patients with Transplant Eligible Multiple Myeloma DARZALEX FASPRO 1,800 mg/30,000 units in combination with VCd in Patients with Light Chain (AL) Amyloidosis Observed mean±SD max C trough after 8 th dose (µg/mL) 522±226 Geometric mean ratio between 1,800 mg SC and 16 mg/kg was 108% (90% CI: 96, 122) in patients with multiple myeloma 593±306 654±243 526±209 597±232 Simulated median (5 th –95 th percentiles) max C trough after 8 th dose (µg/mL) 472 (144–809) 563 (177–1063) 690 (269–1034) 651 (413–915) 662 (315–1037) Simulated median (5 th –95 th percentiles) C max after 8 th dose (µg/mL) 688 (369–1061) 592 (234–1114) 780 (340–1152) 678 (431–958) 729 (390–1105) Simulated median (5 th –95 th percentiles) AUC 0–7days after 8 th dose ( µg/mL∙day) 4019 (1740–6370) 4017 (1515–7564) 5043 (2242–7426) 4637 (2941–6522) 4855 (2562–7522) Absorption At the recommended dose of DARZALEX FASPRO 1,800 mg/30,000 units, the absolute bioavailability is 69%, with peak concentrations occurring around 3 days (T max ) in patients with multiple myeloma. Peak concentrations occurred around 4 days in patients with light chain (AL) amyloidosis. Distribution The estimated mean (coefficient of variation, CV) volume of distribution for the central compartment is 5.2 L (37%) and peripheral compartment was 3.8 L in patients with multiple myeloma. The estimated mean volume of distribution was 10.8 L (28%) in patients with light chain (AL) amyloidosis. Elimination Daratumumab is cleared by parallel linear and nonlinear saturable target mediated clearances. The estimated mean (CV%) linear clearance of daratumumab is 119 mL/day (59%) in patients with multiple myeloma and is 210 mL/day (42%) in patients with light chain (AL) amyloidosis. The estimated mean (CV%) elimination half-life associated with linear clearance is 20 days (22%) in patients with multiple myeloma and 28 days (74%) in patients with light chain (AL) amyloidosis. Specific Populations The following population characteristics have no clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of daratumumab in patients administered DARZALEX FASPRO as monotherapy or as combination therapy: sex, age (33 to 92 years), renal impairment [Creatinine clearance (CLcr) 15 to 89 mL/min as determined by the Cockcroft-Gault formula], and mild hepatic impairment (total bilirubin 1 to 1.5 times ULN and AST>ULN). The effect of moderate and severe hepatic impairment on daratumumab pharmacokinetics is unknown. Racial or Ethnic Groups Of 190 patients with light chain (AL) amyloidosis who received DARZALEX FASPRO and had a maximum C trough after the 8 th dose, African-Americans (4%) had 24% higher daratumumab mean maximum C trough after the 8 th dose compared to that of Whites (83%) and Asians (10%) had 16% higher mean maximum C trough after the 8 th dose compared to that of Whites. The difference in exposure between that of Asians and Whites could be explained in part by differences in body size. The effect of African-American race on exposure and related safety and efficacy of daratumumab is unknown. Body Weight In patients with multiple myeloma who received DARZALEX FASPRO 1,800 mg/30,000 units as monotherapy, the mean maximum C trough after the 8 th dose was 12% lower in the higher body weight (BW) group (>85 kg), while the mean maximum C trough after the 8 th dose was 81% higher in the lower BW group (≤50 kg) compared to the corresponding BW groups in the intravenous daratumumab arm. In patients with light chain (AL) amyloidosis who received DARZALEX FASPRO 1,800 mg/30,000 units in combination and had a maximum C trough after the 8 th dose, the mean maximum C trough after the 8 th dose was 22% lower in the higher BW group (>85 kg), while the mean maximum C trough was 37% higher in the lower BW group (≤50 kg) compared to the patients with body weight of 51–85 kg. 12.6 Immunogenicity The observed incidence of anti-drug antibody (ADA, including neutralizing antibody) is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay. Differences in assay methods preclude meaningful comparisons of the incidence of ADA in the studies described below with the incidence of ADA in other studies, including those of daratumumab or of other daratumumab products. With the median DARZALEX FASPRO treatment ranging from 6.5 to 56.6 months across 9 clinical trials of patients with smoldering multiple myeloma, multiple myeloma and light chain (AL) amyloidosis treated with DARZALEX as monotherapy or as combination therapies, the incidence of anti-daratumumab antibody development was 0.6% (9/1,563) and 8 patients tested positive for neutralizing antibodies. Because of the low occurrence of anti-daratumumab antibodies, the effect of these antibodies on the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, safety, and/or effectiveness of daratumumab products is unknown. With the median DARZALEX FASPRO treatment ranging from 6.5 to 56.5 months across 9 clinical trials of patients with smoldering multiple myeloma, multiple myeloma and light chain (AL) amyloidosis treated with DARZALEX as monotherapy or as combination therapies, the incidence of anti-rHuPH20 antibody development was 8.7% (136/1,555) and 1 patient tested positive for neutralizing antibodies. There was no identified clinically significant effect of anti-rHuPH20 antibodies on pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, safety, or effectiveness of daratumumab products.

## Mechanism of action
12.1 Mechanism of Action CD38 is a transmembrane glycoprotein (48 kDa) expressed on the surface of hematopoietic cells, including clonal plasma cells in multiple myeloma and light chain (AL) amyloidosis, as well as other cell types. Surface CD38 has multiple functions, including receptor mediated adhesion, signaling, and modulation of cyclase and hydrolase activity. Daratumumab is an IgG1κ human monoclonal antibody (mAb) that binds to CD38 and inhibits the growth of CD38 expressing tumor cells by inducing apoptosis directly through Fc mediated cross linking as well as by immune-mediated tumor cell lysis through complement dependent cytotoxicity (CDC), antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) and antibody dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP). A subset of myeloid derived suppressor cells (CD38+MDSCs), regulatory T cells (CD38+T regs ) and B cells (CD38+B regs ) are decreased by daratumumab. Hyaluronan is a polysaccharide found in the extracellular matrix of the subcutaneous tissue. It is depolymerized by the naturally occurring enzyme hyaluronidase. Unlike the stable structural components of the interstitial matrix, hyaluronan has a half-life of approximately 0.5 days. Hyaluronidase increases permeability of the subcutaneous tissue by depolymerizing hyaluronan. In the doses administered, hyaluronidase in DARZALEX FASPRO acts locally. The effects of hyaluronidase are reversible and permeability of the subcutaneous tissue is restored within 24 to 48 hours.

## Clinical studies
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14.1 Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma In Combination with Bortezomib, Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone in Patients Eligible for Autologous Stem Cell Transplant The efficacy of DARZALEX FASPRO with bortezomib, lenalidomide and dexamethasone (DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd) during induction and consolidation was evaluated in PERSEUS (NCT03710603), an open-label, randomized, active-controlled trial in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma eligible for ASCT. Enrollment was limited to patients 70 years of age and younger. Patients received DARZALEX FASPRO 1,800 mg/30,000 units administered subcutaneously once weekly from weeks 1 to 8 and once every 2 weeks from weeks 9 to 16 during induction. After week 16, patients underwent stem cell mobilization, high dose chemotherapy, and ASCT. Within 12 weeks of ASCT, and when engraftment was complete, patients received DARZALEX FASPRO once every 2 weeks from weeks 1 to 8 during consolidation. Bortezomib was administered by subcutaneous injection at a dose of 1.3 mg/m 2 body surface area twice weekly for two weeks (days 1, 4, 8, and 11) of each 28-day cycle for weeks 1–16 during induction and weeks 1–8 during consolidation. Lenalidomide was administered orally at 25 mg daily (days 1–21) during weeks 1–16 during induction and weeks 1–8 during consolidation. Dexamethasone (oral or intravenous) was administered at 40 mg on Days 1–4 and Days 9–12 during weeks 1–16 during induction and weeks 1–8 during consolidation. On the days of DARZALEX FASPRO injection, the dexamethasone dose was administered orally or intravenously as a pre-injection medication. Following consolidation, patients received an investigational treatment regimen for maintenance that included DARZALEX FASPRO in combination with lenalidomide or lenalidomide alone. The trial was not designed to isolate the effect of DARZALEX FASPRO in the maintenance phase of treatment. The efficacy of DARZALEX FASPRO in combination with lenalidomide for maintenance has not been established. The major efficacy outcome measure was progression-free survival (PFS) by independent review committee (IRC) based on IMWG response criteria. A total of 709 patients were randomized: 355 to the DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd arm and 354 to the VRd arm. The median age was 60 years (range: 31 to 70); 59% were male, 92% were White, 1% were Black or African American, and 1% were Asian. Fifty-one percent had ISS Stage I, 34% had ISS Stage II, 15% had ISS Stage III disease. High-risk cytogenetics (presence of del(17p), t(4;14), t(14,16)) were present in 22% of patients. PERSEUS demonstrated an improvement in PFS in the DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd arm as compared to the VRd arm; the median PFS had not been reached in either arm. Treatment with DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd resulted in a reduction in the risk of disease progression or death by 60% compared to VRd alone (HR [95% CI]: 0.40 [0.29, 0.57]; p-value < 0.0001). Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier Curve of PFS in PERSEUS Additional efficacy results from PERSEUS are presented in Table 28. Table 28: Efficacy Results through End of Consolidation from PERSEUS DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd (n=355) VRd (n=354) VRd = bortezomib-lenalidomide-dexamethasone; MRD=minimal residual disease; CI=confidence interval Overall response (sCR+CR+VGPR+PR), n (%) Based on intent-to-treat population 338 (95.2%) 326 (92.1%) Stringent complete response (sCR) 67 (18.9%) 46 (13.0%) Complete response (CR) 91 (25.6%) 77 (21.8%) Very good partial response (VGPR) 165 (46.5%) 168 (47.5%) Partial response (PR) 15 (4.2%) 35 (9.9%) CR or better (sCR+CR) , n (%) 158 (44.5%) 123 (34.7%) 95% CI (%) Exact 95% confidence interval (39.3%, 49.9%) (29.8%, 40.0%) MRD negativity rate , Based on threshold of 10 -5 using a next-generation sequencing assay (clonoSEQ) , Patients achieved both MRD negativity (threshold of 10 -5 ) and response of CR or better , n (%) 204 (57.5%) 115 (32.5%) 95% CI (%) (52.1%, 62.7%) (27.6%, 37.6%) MRD negativity rate in patients with CR or better , Based on patients with CR or better response by the end of consolidation Number of patients with CR or better n=158 n=123 MRD negativity rate n (%) 121 (76.6%) 72 (58.5%) 95% CI (%) (69.2%, 82.9%) (49.3%, 67.3%) In Combination with Bortezomib, Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone in Patients Who Are Ineligible for ASCT The efficacy of DARZALEX FASPRO with bortezomib, lenalidomide and dexamethasone (DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd) versus bortezomib, lenalidomide and dexamethasone (VRd) was evaluated in CEPHEUS (NCT03652064), an open-label, randomized, active-controlled trial in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who were ineligible for ASCT or refused ASCT as initial therapy. Patients received DARZALEX FASPRO 1,800 mg/30,000 units administered subcutaneously once weekly from weeks 1 to 6, once every three weeks from weeks 7 to 24, and once every 4 weeks starting with week 25 until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Bortezomib was administered by subcutaneous injection at a dose of 1.3 mg/m 2 body surface area twice weekly (days 1, 4, 8, and 11) in repeated 21-day (3-week) cycles from Cycles 1–8. Lenalidomide was administered orally at 25 mg daily on Days 1–14 of Cycles 1–8 and on Days 1–21 during Cycles 9 and beyond. Dexamethasone was administered orally at 20 mg on Days 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11, and 12 of Cycles 1–8 (or at 20 mg on Days 1, 4, 8, and 11 for patients >75 years or BMI <18.5) and at 40 mg on Days 1, 8, 15, and 22 during Cycles 9 and beyond (or at a reduced dose of 20 mg per week for patients >75 years or BMI <18.5). On the days of DARZALEX FASPRO injection, the dexamethasone dose was administered orally or intravenously as a pre-injection medication. The effectiveness of DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd has not been established in patients who refused ASCT as initial therapy. The major efficacy outcome measures were overall minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity rate and progression-free survival (PFS) by independent review committee (IRC) based on IMWG response criteria. A total of 395 patients were randomized: 197 to the DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd arm and 198 to the VRd arm. The median age was 70 years (range: 31 to 80); 50% were male and 81% were White, 5% were Black or African American, and 6% were Asian. Thirty-four percent had ISS Stage I, 38% had ISS Stage II, and 28% had ISS Stage III disease. High-risk cytogenetics (presence of del(17p), t(4;14), t(14,16)) were present in 13% of patients. The trial demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in overall MRD negativity rate, PFS, CR or better rate, and sustained MRD negativity rate, as shown in Table 29 and Figure 2. Table 29: Efficacy Outcomes from CEPHEUS Based on intent-to-treat population unless otherwise noted. , The hierarchical testing order in the CEPHEUS study was overall MRD negativity rate followed by CR or better rate, PFS, and sustained MRD negativity rate. DARZALEX FASPRO-VRd (N=197) VRd (N=198) VRd=bortezomib-lenalidomide-dexamethasone; PFS=progression-free survival; MRD=minimal residual disease; CI=confidence interval; NR = not reached; NE = not evaluable. PFS based on IRC Interim analysis: Median follow-up of 39 months (cut-off date 08 September 2022). Number of events, n (%) 46 (23.4%) 68 (34.3%) Median, months with 95% CI NR (NE, NE) NR (NE, NE) Hazard ratio with 95% CI Hazard ratio and 95% CI from a Cox proportional hazards model with treatment as the sole explanatory variable and stratified with ISS staging (I, II, III), and age/transplant eligibility (<70 years ineligible, or <70 years and refusal to transplant, or ≥70 years) as randomized. A hazard ratio <1 indicates an advantage for D-VRd. 0.60 (0.41, 0.88) p-value p-value is based on the log-rank test stratified with ISS staging (I, II, III), and age/transplant eligibility (<70 years ineligible, or <70 years and refusal to transplant, or ≥70 years) as randomized. 0.0078 MRD negativity rate n (%) Primary analysis: Median follow-up of 22 months (cut-off date 08 April 2021). , Patients achieved both MRD negativity (threshold of 10 -5 ) and CR or better. All MRD testing was performed with a next-generation sequencing assay (clonoSEQ). 103 (52.3%) 69 (34.8%) p-value p-value from Cochran Mantel-Haenszel Chi-Squared test. 0.0005 Overall CR or better (sCR+CR) n (%) 150 (76.1%) 116 (58.6%) p-value 0.0002 MRD negativity rate in patients with CR or better , Patients achieving MRD negativity (threshold of 10 -5 ) among only patients achieving a response of CR or better. Number of patients with CR or better n=150 n=116 MRD negativity rate n (%) 103 (68.7%) 69 (59.5%) 95% CI (%) Exact 95% confidence interval. (60.6%, 76.0%) (50.0%, 68.5%) Sustained MRD negativity rate n (%) , Sustained MRD negativity is defined as confirmed MRD negative status at two examinations at least 1 year apart without MRD positive status in between. 84 (42.6%) 50 (25.3%) p-value p-value from Fisher's exact test. 0.0003 Overall response (sCR+CR+VGPR+PR) n(%) Final analysis: Median follow-up of 59 months (cut-off date 07 May 2024). 191 (97.0%) 185 (93.4%) Stringent Complete Response (sCR) 128 (65.0%) 89 (44.9%) Complete response (CR) 32 (16.2%) 33 (16.7%) Very good partial response (VGPR) 23 (11.7%) 49 (24.7%) Partial response (PR) 8 (4.1%) 14 (7.1%) Figure 2: Kaplan-Meier Curve of PFS in CEPHEUS PFS median follow-up of 39 months In Combination with Bortezomib, Melphalan and Prednisone in Patients Ineligible for Autologous Stem Cell Transplant The efficacy of DARZALEX FASPRO with bortezomib, melphalan and prednisone was evaluated in a single-arm cohort of PLEIADES (NCT03412565), a multi-cohort, open-label trial. Eligible patients were required to have newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who are ineligible for transplant. Patients received DARZALEX FASPRO 1,800 mg/30,000 units administered subcutaneously once weekly from weeks 1 to 6, once every 3 weeks from weeks 7 to 54 and once every 4 weeks starting with week 55 until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity; bortezomib 1.3 mg/m 2 subcutaneously twice weekly on Weeks 1, 2, 4 and 5 for the first 6-week cycle (Cycle 1; 8 doses), followed by once weekly on Weeks 1, 2, 4 and 5 for eight more 6-week cycles (Cycles 2–9; 4 doses per cycle); and melphalan 9 mg/m 2 and prednisone 60 mg/m 2 orally on Days 1 to 4 of the nine 6-week cycles (Cycles 1–9). The major efficacy outcome measure was overall response rate (ORR). A total of 67 patients received DARZALEX FASPRO with VMP. The median age was 75 years (range: 66 to 86 years); 46% were male; 69% were White, 8% Asian, and 2% Black or African American; and 33% had ISS Stage I, 45% had ISS Stage II, and 22% had ISS Stage III disease. Efficacy results are summarized in Table 30. The median duration of follow-up for patients was 6.9 months. Table 30: Efficacy Results from PLEIADES in Patients Who Received DARZALEX FASPRO-VMP DARZALEX FASPRO-VMP (N=67) CI=confidence interval Overall response rate (sCR+CR+VGPR+PR), n (%) Based on treated patients 59 (88%) 95% CI (%) (78%, 95%) Stringent complete response (sCR) 5 (8%) Complete response (CR) 7 (10%) Very good partial response (VGPR) 31 (46%) Partial response (PR) 16 (24%) Figure 1 Figure 2 14.2 Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma In Combination with Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone The efficacy of DARZALEX FASPRO with lenalidomide and dexamethasone (DARZALEX FASPRO-Rd) was evaluated in a single-arm cohort of PLEIADES (NCT03412565), a multi-cohort, open-label trial. Patients received DARZALEX FASPRO 1,800 mg/30,000 units administered subcutaneously once weekly from weeks 1 to 8, once every 2 weeks from weeks 9 to 24 and once every 4 weeks starting with week 25 until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity with lenalidomide 25 mg once daily orally on Days 1–21 of each 28-day cycle; and dexamethasone 40 mg per week (or a reduced dose of 20 mg per week for patients >75 years or BMI <18.5). The major efficacy outcome measure was ORR. A total of 65 patients received DARZALEX FASPRO with Rd. The median age was 69 years (range: 33 to 8
[truncated]

## How supplied
16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING DARZALEX FASPRO ® (daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj) injection is a sterile, preservative-free, colorless to yellow, and clear to opalescent solution for subcutaneous use supplied as individually packaged single-dose vials providing 1,800 mg of daratumumab and 30,000 units of hyaluronidase per 15 mL (NDC 57894-503-01). Store DARZALEX FASPRO vials in a refrigerator at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) in the original carton to protect from light. Do not freeze or shake.

## Storage and handling
Store DARZALEX FASPRO vials in a refrigerator at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) in the original carton to protect from light. Do not freeze or shake.

## Information for patients
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA-approved patient labeling (Patient Information). Hypersensitivity and Other Administration Reactions Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention for any of the following signs and symptoms of systemic administration-related reactions: itchy, runny or blocked nose; chills, nausea, throat irritation, cough, headache, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, and blurred vision [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Cardiac Toxicity in Patients with Light Chain (AL) Amyloidosis Advise patients to immediately contact their healthcare provider if they have signs or symptoms of cardiac adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Infections Inform patients about the risk of developing infections during DARZALEX FASPRO treatment, and to report immediately any fever or symptoms of infection to their healthcare provider [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Neutropenia Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if they have a fever [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Thrombocytopenia Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if they have bruising or bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Embryo-Fetal Toxicity Advise pregnant women of the potential hazard to a fetus. Advise females of reproductive potential to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) , Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , 8.3) ] . Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with DARZALEX FASPRO and for 3 months after the last dose [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , 8.3) ] . Advise patients that lenalidomide, thalidomide and pomalidomide have the potential to cause fetal harm and have specific requirements regarding contraception, pregnancy testing, blood and sperm donation, and transmission in sperm. Lenalidomide, thalidomide and pomalidomide are only available through a REMS program [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , 8.3) ] . Interference with Laboratory Tests Advise patients to inform their healthcare provider, including personnel at blood transfusion centers, that they are taking DARZALEX FASPRO, in the event of a planned transfusion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Advise patients that DARZALEX FASPRO can affect the results of some tests used to determine complete response in some patients and additional tests may be needed to evaluate response [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) Reactivation Advise patients to inform healthcare providers if they have ever had or might have a hepatitis B infection and that DARZALEX FASPRO could cause hepatitis B virus to become active again [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] .

