effective_time:
  20110829
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients: Water, Glycerin, Butylene Glycol, Glycereth-26, Alcohol, Cyclomethicone, Glyceryl, Polymethacrylate, Butylene Glycol Dicaprylate/Dicaprate, Sodium Hyaluronate, Portulaca Oleracea Extract, PEG-60 Hydrogenated Castor Oil, Dimethicone/Vinyl Dimethicone, Crosspolymer, Sodium Acrylate/Sodium Acryloyldimethyl Taurate Copolymer, Carbomer, Triethanolamine, Phenoxyethanol, Isononyl Isononanoate, Caprylic Capric Triglyceride, Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate, Hematite Extract, Topaz, Aluminum Silicate, Zeolite, Olivine Extract, Anthemis Nobilis Flower Extact, Hydroxyethylcellulose, Ceramide 3, Allantoin, Hydrogenated Lecithin, Disoium EDTA, Chaenomeles Sinensis Fruit Extract, Sea Water, Methyl Paraen, Flavor
purpose:
  Purpose: It makes an emolient skin by eliminating the psoriasis and itching caused by the keratose in skin. It prevents the evaporation by forming a film on the skin, and then it makes skin smooth and moist by increasing the moisture constantly. It helps to vitalize and animate the skin by holding of the water in skin. It helps to reduce the skin's irritation. It helps to lessen the sensitive skin.
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children: Keep out of the reach of babies and children.
warnings:
  Warnings: In case of having following symptoms after using this, you're advised to stop using it immediately. If you keep using it, the symptoms will get worse and need to consult a dermatologist. - In case of having problems such as red rash, swollenness, itching, stimulation during usage. - In case of having the same symptoms above on the part you put this product on by direct sunlight. You are banned to use it on the part where you have a scar, eczema, or dermatitis. In case of getting it into your eyes, you have to wash it immediately.
spl_product_data_elements:
  ESOPINIO ANIMATING WATER Dimethicone Dimethicone Dimethicone Water GLYCERIN Butylene Glycol ALCOHOL CYCLOMETHICONE HYALURONATE SODIUM POLYOXYL 60 HYDROGENATED CASTOR OIL CARBOMER 934 TROLAMINE Phenoxyethanol MEDIUM-CHAIN TRIGLYCERIDES ALUMINUM SILICATE CHAMAEMELUM NOBILE ALLANTOIN EDETATE DISODIUM METHYLPARABEN
openfda:
version:
  1
dosage_and_administration:
  Dosage and administration: Take up about 1.2g - 1.5g of it and smooth over the entire face.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  Image of carton
indications_and_usage:
  Indication and usage: Tighten the lid after using it. Don't keep it in the place where the temperature is extremely hot or low and exposed the direct sunlight. Use it in the morning and evening after applying the Esopinio Wrinkless Plus CT-I.
set_id:
  48e5dc46-d073-4eba-8121-682300509f9e
id:
  22a29026-beca-4096-a8d1-d814c72312d7
active_ingredient:
  Active ingredient: DIMETHICONE
