Drug: Humira
OpenFDA brand names: Humira
Drug ID: humira
Generic name: ADALIMUMAB
Manufacturer: Cordavis Limited
NDC: 83457-124, 83457-554, 83457-243, 83457-616, 83457-817
Application number: BLA125057
RxCUI: 797544, 1726844, 1726846, 1872979, 1872980, 1921009, 1921010, 1921016, 1921017, 1921238, 1921240
Route: unknown
Pharmacologic class: unknown
Source: openFDA drug label

## Boxed warning
WARNING: SERIOUS INFECTIONS AND MALIGNANCY SERIOUS INFECTIONS Patients treated with HUMIRA are at increased risk for developing serious infections that may lead to hospitalization or death [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Most patients who developed these infections were taking concomitant immunosuppressants such as methotrexate or corticosteroids. Discontinue HUMIRA if a patient develops a serious infection or sepsis. Reported infections include: Active tuberculosis (TB), including reactivation of latent TB. Patients with TB have frequently presented with disseminated or extrapulmonary disease. Test patients for latent TB before HUMIRA use and during therapy. Initiate treatment for latent TB prior to HUMIRA use. Invasive fungal infections, including histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, candidiasis, aspergillosis, blastomycosis, and pneumocystosis. Patients with histoplasmosis or other invasive fungal infections may present with disseminated, rather than localized, disease. Antigen and antibody testing for histoplasmosis may be negative in some patients with active infection. Consider empiric anti-fungal therapy in patients at risk for invasive fungal infections who develop severe systemic illness. Bacterial, viral and other infections due to opportunistic pathogens, including Legionella and Listeria. Carefully consider the risks and benefits of treatment with HUMIRA prior to initiating therapy in patients with chronic or recurrent infection. Monitor patients closely for the development of signs and symptoms of infection during and after treatment with HUMIRA, including the possible development of TB in patients who tested negative for latent TB infection prior to initiating therapy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. MALIGNANCY Lymphoma and other malignancies, some fatal, have been reported in children and adolescent patients treated with TNF blockers including HUMIRA [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Post-marketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (HSTCL), a rare type of T-cell lymphoma, have been reported in patients treated with TNF blockers including HUMIRA. These cases have had a very aggressive disease course and have been fatal. The majority of reported TNF blocker cases have occurred in patients with Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis and the majority were in adolescent and young adult males. Almost all these patients had received treatment with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine (6–MP) concomitantly with a TNF blocker at or prior to diagnosis. It is uncertain whether the occurrence of HSTCL is related to use of a TNF blocker or a TNF blocker in combination with these other immunosuppressants [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. WARNING: SERIOUS INFECTIONS AND MALIGNANCY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning. SERIOUS INFECTIONS ( 5.1 , 6.1 ): Increased risk of serious infections leading to hospitalization or death, including tuberculosis (TB), bacterial sepsis, invasive fungal infections (such as histoplasmosis), and infections due to other opportunistic pathogens. Discontinue HUMIRA if a patient develops a serious infection or sepsis during treatment. Perform test for latent TB; if positive, start treatment for TB prior to starting HUMIRA. Monitor all patients for active TB during treatment, even if initial latent TB test is negative. MALIGNANCY ( 5.2 ): Lymphoma and other malignancies, some fatal, have been reported in children and adolescent patients treated with TNF blockers including HUMIRA. Post-marketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (HSTCL), a rare type of T-cell lymphoma, have occurred in adolescent and young adults with inflammatory bowel disease treated with TNF blockers including HUMIRA.

## Indications and usage
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE HUMIRA is a tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blocker indicated for: Reducing signs and symptoms, inducing major clinical response, inhibiting the progression of structural damage, and improving physical function in adult patients with moderately to severely active r heumatoid a rthritis . ( 1.1 ) Reducing signs and symptoms of moderately to severely active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in patients 2 years of age and older. ( 1.2 ) Reducing signs and symptoms, inhibiting the progression of structural damage, and improving physical function in adult patients with active psoriatic arthritis . ( 1.3 ) Reducing signs and symptoms in adult patients with active ankylosing spondylitis . ( 1.4 ) Treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease in adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older. ( 1.5 ) Treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adults and pediatric patients 5 years of age and older. ( 1.6 ) Limitations of Use: Effectiveness has not been established in patients who have lost response to or were intolerant to TNF blockers. Treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy, and when other systemic therapies are medically less appropriate. ( 1.7 ) Treatment of moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in patients 12 years of age and older. ( 1.8 ) Treatment of non-infectious intermediate, posterior, and panuveitis in adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older. ( 1.9 ) 1.1 Rheumatoid Arthritis HUMIRA is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms, inducing major clinical response, inhibiting the progression of structural damage, and improving physical function in adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis. HUMIRA can be used alone or in combination with methotrexate or other non-biologic disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). 1.2 Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis HUMIRA is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms of moderately to severely active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in patients 2 years of age and older. HUMIRA can be used alone or in combination with methotrexate. 1.3 Psoriatic Arthritis HUMIRA is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms, inhibiting the progression of structural damage, and improving physical function in adult patients with active psoriatic arthritis. HUMIRA can be used alone or in combination with non-biologic DMARDs. 1.4 Ankylosing Spondylitis HUMIRA is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms in adult patients with active ankylosing spondylitis. 1.5 Crohn’s Disease HUMIRA is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease in adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older. 1.6 Ulcerative Colitis HUMIRA is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adults and pediatric patients 5 years of age and older. Limitations of Use The effectiveness of HUMIRA has not been established in patients who have lost response to or were intolerant to TNF blockers [see Clinical Studies ( 14.7 , 14.8 ) ] . 1.7 Plaque Psoriasis HUMIRA is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy, and when other systemic therapies are medically less appropriate. HUMIRA should only be administered to patients who will be closely monitored and have regular follow-up visits with a physician [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] . 1.8 Hidradenitis Suppurativa HUMIRA is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in patients 12 years of age and older. 1.9 Uveitis HUMIRA is indicated for the treatment of non-infectious intermediate, posterior, and panuveitis in adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older.

## Dosage and administration
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer by subcutaneous injection ( 2 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis, Psoriatic Arthritis, Ankylosing Spondylitis ( 2.1 ): Adults: 40 mg every other week. Some patients with RA not receiving methotrexate may benefit from increasing the dosage to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis or Pediatric Uveitis ( 2.2 ): Pediatric Weight 2 Years of Age and Older Recommended Dosage 10 kg (22 lbs) to less than 15 kg (33 lbs) 10 mg every other week 15 kg (33 lbs) to less than 30 kg (66 lbs) 20 mg every other week 30 kg (66 lbs) and greater 40 mg every other week Crohn's Disease ( 2.3 ): Adults: 160 mg on Day 1 (given in one day or split over two consecutive days); 80 mg on Day 15; and 40 mg every other week starting on Day 29. Pediatric Patients 6 Years of Age and Older : Pediatric Weight Recommended Dosage Days 1 and 15 Starting on Day 29 17 kg (37 lbs) to less than 40 kg (88 lbs) Day 1: 80 mg Day 15: 40 mg 20 mg every other week 40 kg (88 lbs) and greater Day 1: 160 mg (single dose or split over two consecutive days) Day 15: 80 mg 40 mg every other week Ulcerative Colitis ( 2.4 ) : Adults: 160 mg on Day 1 (given in one day or split over two consecutive days), 80 mg on Day 15 and 40 mg every other week starting on Day 29. Discontinue in patients without evidence of clinical remission by eight weeks (Day 57). Pediatric Patients 5 Years of Age and Older : Pediatric Weight Recommended Dosage Days 1 through 15 Starting on Day 29* 20 kg (44 lbs) to less than 40 kg (88 lbs) Day 1: 80 mg Day 8: 40 mg Day 15: 40 mg 40 mg every other week or 20 mg every week 40 kg (88 lbs) and greater Day 1: 160 mg (single dose or split over two consecutive days) Day 8: 80 mg Day 15: 80 mg 80 mg every other week or 40 mg every week * Continue the recommended pediatric dosage in patients who turn 18 years of age and who are well-controlled on their HUMIRA regimen. Plaque Psoriasis or Adult Uveitis ( 2.5 ): Adults : 80 mg initial dose, followed by 40 mg every other week starting one week after initial dose. Hidradenitis Suppurativa ( 2.6 ): Adults : ◦ Day 1: 160 mg (given in one day or split over two consecutive days) ◦ Day 15: 80 mg ◦ Day 29 and subsequent doses: 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week Adolescents 12 years of age and older: Adolescent Weight Recommended Dosage 30 kg (66 lbs) to less than 60 kg (132 lbs) Day 1: 80 mg Day 8 and subsequent doses: 40 mg every other week 60 kg (132 lbs) and greater Day 1: 160 mg (given in one day or split over two consecutive days) Day 15: 80 mg Day 29 and subsequent doses: 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week 2.1 Recommended Tuberculosis Evaluation Prior to initiating HUMIRA and periodically during therapy, evaluate patients for active tuberculosis and test for latent infection [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] . 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Rheumatoid Arthritis, Psoriatic Arthritis, and Ankylosing Spondylitis The recommended subcutaneous dosage of HUMIRA for adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), psoriatic arthritis (PsA), or ankylosing spondylitis (AS) [see Indication and Usage ( 1.1 , 1.3 , 1.4 )] is 40 mg administered every other week. Methotrexate (MTX), other non-biologic DMARDS, glucocorticoids, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and/or analgesics may be continued during treatment with HUMIRA. In the treatment of RA, some patients not taking concomitant MTX may derive additional benefit from increasing the dosage of HUMIRA to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. 2. 3 Recommended Dosage in Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis or Pediatric Patients with Uveitis The recommended subcutaneous dosage of HUMIRA for pediatric patients 2 years of age and older with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) or pediatric uveitis [see Indications and Usage ( 1.2 , 1.9 )] , based on weight, is shown below. MTX, glucocorticoids, NSAIDs, and/or analgesics may be continued during treatment with HUMIRA. Pediatric Weight (2 Years of Age and older) Recommended Dosage 10 kg (22 lbs) to less than 15 kg (33 lbs) 10 mg every other week 15 kg (33 lbs) to less than 30 kg (66 lbs) 20 mg every other week 30 kg (66 lbs) and greater 40 mg every other week HUMIRA has not been studied in patients with polyarticular JIA or pediatric uveitis less than 2 years of age or in patients with a weight below 10 kg. 2. 4 Recommended Dosage in Crohn’s Disease Subcutaneous Adult Dosage Regimen The recommended subcutaneous dosage of HUMIRA for adult patients with moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease (CD) is 160 mg initially on Day 1 (given in one day or split over two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg two weeks later (Day 15). Two weeks later (Day 29) begin a dosage of 40 mg every other week. Aminosalicylates and/or corticosteroids may be continued during treatment with HUMIRA. Azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] or MTX may be continued during treatment with HUMIRA if necessary. Subcutaneous Pediatric Dosage Regimen The recommended subcutaneous dosage of HUMIRA for pediatric patients 6 years of age and older with moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease (CD), based on body weight, is shown below: Pediatric Weight Recommended Dosage Days 1 through 15 Starting on Day 29 17 kg (37 lbs) to less than 40 kg (88 lbs) Day 1: 80 mg Day 15: 40 mg 20 mg every other week 40 kg (88 lbs) and greater Day 1: 160 mg (single dose or split over two consecutive days) Day 15: 80 mg 40 mg every other week 2. 5 Recommended Dosage in Ulcerative Colitis Subcutaneous Adult Dosage Regimen The recommended subcutaneous dosage of HUMIRA for adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis is 160 mg initially on Day 1 (given in one day or split over two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg two weeks later (Day 15). Two weeks later (Day 29) continue with a dosage of 40 mg every other week. Discontinue HUMIRA in adult patients without evidence of clinical remission by eight weeks (Day 57) of therapy. Aminosalicylates and/or corticosteroids may be continued during treatment with HUMIRA. Azathioprine and 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] may be continued during treatment with HUMIRA if necessary. Subcutaneous Pediatric Dosage Regimen The recommended subcutaneous dosage of HUMIRA for pediatric patients 5 years of age and older with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis, based on body weight, is shown below: Pediatric Weight Recommended Dosage Days 1 through 15 Starting on Day 29* 20 kg (44 lbs) to less than 40 kg (88 lbs) Day 1: 80 mg Day 8: 40 mg Day 15: 40 mg 40 mg every other week or 20 mg every week 40 kg (88 lbs) and greater Day 1: 160 mg (single dose or split over two consecutive days) Day 8: 80 mg Day 15: 80 mg 80 mg every other week or 40 mg every week * Continue the recommended pediatric dosage in patients who turn 18 years of age and who are well-controlled on their HUMIRA regimen. 2. 6 Recommended Dosage in Plaque Psoriasis or Adult s with Uveitis The recommended subcutaneous dosage of HUMIRA for adult patients with plaque psoriasis (Ps) or uveitis (UV) [see Indications and Usage ( 1.7 , 1.9 )] is an initial dose of 80 mg, followed by 40 mg given every other week starting one week after the initial dose. The use of HUMIRA in moderate to severe chronic Ps beyond one year has not been evaluated in controlled clinical studies. 2.7 Recommended Dosage in Hidradenitis Suppurativa Subcutaneous Adult Dosage Regimen The recommended subcutaneous dosage of HUMIRA for adult patients with moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is an initial dose of 160 mg (given in one day or split over two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg two weeks later (Day 15). Begin 40 mg weekly or 80 mg every other week dosing two weeks later (Day 29). Subcutaneous Pediatric Dosage Regimen The recommended subcutaneous dosage of HUMIRA for pediatric patients 12 years of age and older weighing at least 30 kg with moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (HS), based on body weight, is shown below [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] : Body Weight of Pediatric Patients (12 years of age and older) Recommended Dosage 30 kg (66 lbs) to less than 60 kg (132 lbs) Day 1: 80 mg Day 8 and subsequent doses: 40 mg every other week 60 kg (132 lbs) and greater Day 1: 160 mg (given in one day or split over two consecutive days); Day 15: 80 mg Day 29 and subsequent doses: 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week 2.8 General Considerations for Administration HUMIRA is intended for use under the guidance and supervision of a physician. A patient may self-inject HUMIRA or a caregiver may inject HUMIRA using either the HUMIRA Pen or prefilled syringe if a physician determines that it is appropriate, and with medical follow-up, as necessary, after proper training in subcutaneous injection technique. HUMIRA can be taken out of the refrigerator for 15 to 30 minutes before injecting to allow the liquid to come to room temperature. Do not remove the cap or cover while allowing it to reach room temperature. Carefully inspect the solution in the HUMIRA Pen or prefilled syringe for particulate matter and discoloration prior to subcutaneous administration. If particulates and discolorations are noted, do not use the product. HUMIRA does not contain preservatives; therefore, discard unused portions of drug remaining from the syringe. NOTE: Instruct patients sensitive to latex not to handle the needle cover of the HUMIRA 40 mg/0.8 mL Pen and 40 mg/0.8 mL prefilled syringe because it may contain natural rubber latex [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] . Instruct patients using the HUMIRA Pen or prefilled syringe to inject the full amount in the syringe, according to the directions provided in the Instructions for Use [see Instructions for Use ] . Injections should occur at separate sites in the thigh or abdomen. Rotate injection sites and do not give injections into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red or hard. If a dose is missed, administer the dose as soon as possible. Thereafter, resume dosing at the regular scheduled time.

## Dosage forms and strengths
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS HUMIRA is a clear and colorless solution available as: Pen (HUMIRA Pen) Injection: 80 mg/0.8 mL in a single-dose pen. Injection: 40 mg/0.8 mL in a single-dose pen. Injection: 40 mg/0.4 mL in a single-dose pen. Prefilled Syringe Injection: 80 mg/0.8 mL in a single-dose prefilled glass syringe. Injection: 40 mg/0.8 mL in a single-dose prefilled glass syringe. Injection: 40 mg/0.4 mL in a single-dose prefilled glass syringe. Injection: 20 mg/0.2 mL in a single-dose prefilled glass syringe. Injection: 10 mg/0.1 mL in a single-dose prefilled glass syringe. Injection: Single-dose prefilled pen (HUMIRA Pen): 80 mg/0.8 mL, 40 mg/0.8 mL, and 40 mg/0.4 mL ( 3 ) Single-dose prefilled glass syringe: 80 mg/0.8 mL, 40 mg/0.8 mL, 40 mg/0.4 mL, 20 mg/0.2 mL, 10 mg/0.1 mL ( 3 )

## Contraindications
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None. None ( 4 )

## Warnings and cautions
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious infections: Do not start HUMIRA during an active infection. If an infection develops, monitor carefully, and stop HUMIRA if infection becomes serious. ( 5.1 ) Invasive fungal infections: For patients who develop a systemic illness on HUMIRA, consider empiric antifungal therapy for those who reside or travel to regions where mycoses are endemic. ( 5.1 ) Malignancies: Incidence of malignancies was greater in HUMIRA-treated patients than in controls ( 5.2 ) Anaphylaxis or serious hypersensitivity reactions may occur ( 5.3 ) Hepatitis B virus reactivation: Monitor HBV carriers during and several months after therapy. If reactivation occurs, stop HUMIRA and begin anti-viral therapy. ( 5.4 ) Demyelinating disease: Exacerbation or new onset, may occur. ( 5.5 ) Cytopenias, pancytopenia: Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if symptoms develop, and consider stopping HUMIRA. ( 5.6 ) Heart failure: Worsening or new onset, may occur. ( 5.8 ) Autoimmunity: Stop HUMIRA if lupus-like syndrome or autoimmune hepatitis develops. ( 5.9 ) 5.1 Serious Infections Patients treated with HUMIRA are at increased risk for developing serious infections involving various organ systems and sites that may lead to hospitalization or death. Opportunistic infections due to bacterial, mycobacterial, invasive fungal, viral, parasitic, or other opportunistic pathogens including aspergillosis, blastomycosis, candidiasis, coccidioidomycosis, histoplasmosis, legionellosis, listeriosis, pneumocystosis and tuberculosis have been reported with TNF blockers. Patients have frequently presented with disseminated rather than localized disease. The concomitant use of a TNF blocker and abatacept or anakinra was associated with a higher risk of serious infections in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA); therefore, the concomitant use of HUMIRA and these biologic products is not recommended in the treatment of patients with RA [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.11 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . Treatment with HUMIRA should not be initiated in patients with an active infection, including localized infections. Patients 65 years of age and older, patients with co-morbid conditions and/or patients taking concomitant immunosuppressants (such as corticosteroids or methotrexate), may be at greater risk of infection. Consider the risks and benefits of treatment prior to initiating therapy in patients: with chronic or recurrent infection; who have been exposed to tuberculosis; with a history of an opportunistic infection; who have resided or traveled in areas of endemic tuberculosis or endemic mycoses, such as histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, or blastomycosis; or with underlying conditions that may predispose them to infection. Tuberculosis Cases of reactivation of tuberculosis and new onset tuberculosis infections have been reported in patients receiving HUMIRA, including patients who have previously received treatment for latent or active tuberculosis. Reports included cases of pulmonary and extrapulmonary (i.e., disseminated) tuberculosis. Evaluate patients for tuberculosis risk factors and test for latent infection prior to initiating HUMIRA and periodically during therapy. Treatment of latent tuberculosis infection prior to therapy with TNF blocking agents has been shown to reduce the risk of tuberculosis reactivation during therapy. Prior to initiating HUMIRA, assess if treatment for latent tuberculosis is needed; and consider an induration of ≥ 5 mm a positive tuberculin skin test result, even for patients previously vaccinated with Bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG). Consider anti-tuberculosis therapy prior to initiation of HUMIRA in patients with a past history of latent or active tuberculosis in whom an adequate course of treatment cannot be confirmed, and for patients with a negative test for latent tuberculosis but having risk factors for tuberculosis infection. Despite prophylactic treatment for tuberculosis, cases of reactivated tuberculosis have occurred in patients treated with HUMIRA. Consultation with a physician with expertise in the treatment of tuberculosis is recommended to aid in the decision whether initiating anti-tuberculosis therapy is appropriate for an individual patient. Strongly consider tuberculosis in the differential diagnosis in patients who develop a new infection during HUMIRA treatment, especially in patients who have previously or recently traveled to countries with a high prevalence of tuberculosis, or who have had close contact with a person with active tuberculosis. Monitoring Closely monitor patients for the development of signs and symptoms of infection during and after treatment with HUMIRA, including the development of tuberculosis in patients who tested negative for latent tuberculosis infection prior to initiating therapy. Tests for latent tuberculosis infection may also be falsely negative while on therapy with HUMIRA. Discontinue HUMIRA if a patient develops a serious infection or sepsis. For a patient who develops a new infection during treatment with HUMIRA, closely monitor them, perform a prompt and complete diagnostic workup appropriate for an immunocompromised patient, and initiate appropriate antimicrobial therapy. Invasive Fungal Infections If patients develop a serious systemic illness and they reside or travel in regions where mycoses are endemic, consider invasive fungal infection in the differential diagnosis. Antigen and antibody testing for histoplasmosis may be negative in some patients with active infection. Consider appropriate empiric antifungal therapy, taking into account both the risk for severe fungal infection and the risks of antifungal therapy, while a diagnostic workup is being performed. To aid in the management of such patients, consider consultation with a physician with expertise in the diagnosis and treatment of invasive fungal infections. 5.2 Malignancies Consider the risks and benefits of TNF-blocker treatment including HUMIRA prior to initiating therapy in patients with a known malignancy other than a successfully treated non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) or when considering continuing a TNF blocker in patients who develop a malignancy. Malignancies in Adults In the controlled portions of clinical trials of some TNF-blockers, including HUMIRA, more cases of malignancies have been observed among TNF-blocker-treated adult subjects compared to control-treated adult subjects. During the controlled portions of 39 global HUMIRA clinical trials in adult subjects with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), psoriatic arthritis (PsA), ankylosing spondylitis (AS), Crohn’s disease (CD), ulcerative colitis (UC), plaque psoriasis (Ps), hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) and uveitis (UV), malignancies, other than non-melanoma (basal cell and squamous cell) skin cancer, were observed at a rate (95% confidence interval) of 0.7 (0.48, 1.03) per 100 patient-years among 7973 HUMIRA-treated subjects versus a rate of 0.7 (0.41, 1.17) per 100 patient-years among 4848 control-treated subjects (median duration of treatment of 4 months for HUMIRA-treated subjects and 4 months for control-treated subjects). In 52 global controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials of HUMIRA in adult subjects with RA, PsA, AS, CD, UC, Ps, HS and UV, the most frequently observed malignancies, other than lymphoma and NMSC, were breast, colon, prostate, lung, and melanoma. The malignancies in HUMIRA-treated subjects in the controlled and uncontrolled portions of the studies were similar in type and number to what would be expected in the general U.S. population according to the SEER database (adjusted for age, gender, and race). 1 In controlled trials of other TNF blockers in adult subjects at higher risk for malignancies (i.e., subjects with COPD with a significant smoking history and cyclophosphamide-treated subjects with Wegener’s granulomatosis), a greater portion of malignancies occurred in the TNF blocker group compared to the control group. Non-Melanoma Skin Cancer During the controlled portions of 39 global HUMIRA clinical trials in adult subjects with RA, PsA, AS, CD, UC, Ps, HS and UV, the rate (95% confidence interval) of NMSC was 0.8 (0.52, 1.09) per 100 patient-years among HUMIRA-treated subjects and 0.2 (0.10, 0.59) per 100 patient-years among control-treated subjects. Examine all patients, and in particular patients with a medical history of prior prolonged immunosuppressant therapy or psoriasis patients with a history of PUVA treatment for the presence of NMSC prior to and during treatment with HUMIRA. Lymphoma and Leukemia In the controlled portions of clinical trials of all the TNF-blockers in adults, more cases of lymphoma have been observed among TNF-blocker-treated subjects compared to control-treated subjects. In the controlled portions of 39 global HUMIRA clinical trials in adult subjects with RA, PsA, AS, CD, UC, Ps, HS and UV, 2 lymphomas occurred among 7973 HUMIRA-treated subjects versus 1 among 4848 control-treated subjects. In 52 global controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials of HUMIRA in adult subjects with RA, PsA, AS, CD, UC, Ps, HS and UV with a median duration of approximately 0.7 years, including 24,605 subjects and over 40,215 patient-years of HUMIRA, the observed rate of lymphomas was approximately 0.11 per 100 patient-years. This is approximately 3-fold higher than expected in the general U.S. population according to the SEER database (adjusted for age, gender, and race). 1 Rates of lymphoma in clinical trials of HUMIRA cannot be compared to rates of lymphoma in clinical trials of other TNF blockers and may not predict the rates observed in a broader patient population. Patients with RA and other chronic inflammatory diseases, particularly those with highly active disease and/or chronic exposure to immunosuppressant therapies, may be at a higher risk (up to several fold) than the general population for the development of lymphoma, even in the absence of TNF blockers. Post-marketing cases of acute and chronic leukemia have been reported in association with TNF-blocker use in RA and other indications. Even in the absence of TNF-blocker therapy, patients with RA may be at a higher risk (approximately 2-fold) than the general population for the development of leukemia. Malignancies in Pediatric Patients and Young Adults Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents, and young adults who received treatment with TNF-blockers (initiation of therapy ≤ 18 years of age), of which HUMIRA is a member. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas, including Hodgkin's and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. The other cases represented a variety of different malignancies and included rare malignancies usually associated with immunosuppression and malignancies that are not usually observed in children and adolescents. The malignancies occurred after a median of 30 months of therapy (range 1 to 84 months). Most of the patients were receiving concomitant immunosuppressants. These cases were reported post-marketing and are derived from a variety of sources including registries and spontaneous postmarketing reports. Postmarketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (HSTCL), a rare type of T-cell lymphoma, have been reported in patients treated with TNF blockers including HUMIRA. These cases have had a very aggressive disease course and have been fatal. The majority of reported TNF blocker cases have occurred in patients with Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis and the majority were in adolescent and young adult males. Almost all of these patients had received treatment with the immunosuppressants azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine (6–MP) concomitantly with a TNF blocker at or prior to diagnosis. It is uncertain whether the occurrence of HSTCL is related to use of a TNF blocker or a TNF blocker in combination with these other immunosuppressants. The potential risk with the combination of azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurin
[truncated]

## Adverse reactions
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling: Serious Infections [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] Malignancies [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ] Hepatitis B Virus Reactivation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ] Neurologic Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ] Hematological Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ] Heart Failure [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 ) ] Autoimmunity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 ) ] Most common adverse reactions (>10%) are: infections (e.g. upper respiratory, sinusitis), injection site reactions, headache and rash. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact AbbVie Inc. at 1-800-633-9110 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The most common adverse reaction with HUMIRA was injection site reactions. In placebo-controlled trials, 20% of subjects treated with HUMIRA developed injection site reactions (erythema and/or itching, hemorrhage, pain or swelling), compared to 14% of subjects receiving placebo. Most injection site reactions were described as mild and generally did not necessitate drug discontinuation. The proportion of subjects who discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions during the double-blind, placebo-controlled portion of studies in subjects with RA (i.e., Studies RA-I, RA-II, RA-III and RA-IV) was 7% for subjects taking HUMIRA and 4% for placebo-treated subjects. The most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation of HUMIRA in these RA studies were clinical flare reaction (0.7%), rash (0.3%) and pneumonia (0.3%). Infections In the controlled portions of the 39 global HUMIRA clinical trials in adult subjects with RA, PsA, AS, CD, UC, Ps, HS and UV, the rate of serious infections was 4.3 per 100 patient-years in 7973 HUMIRA-treated subjects versus a rate of 2.9 per 100 patient-years in 4848 control-treated subjects. Serious infections observed included pneumonia, septic arthritis, prosthetic and post-surgical infections, erysipelas, cellulitis, diverticulitis, and pyelonephritis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] . Tuberculosis and Opportunistic Infections In 52 global controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials in RA, PsA, AS, CD, UC, Ps, HS and UV that included 24,605 HUMIRA-treated subjects, the rate of reported active tuberculosis was 0.20 per 100 patient-years and the rate of positive PPD conversion was 0.09 per 100 patient-years. In a subgroup of 10,113 U.S. and Canadian HUMIRA-treated subjects, the rate of reported active TB was 0.05 per 100 patient-years and the rate of positive PPD conversion was 0.07 per 100 patient-years. These trials included reports of miliary, lymphatic, peritoneal, and pulmonary TB. Most of the TB cases occurred within the first eight months after initiation of therapy and may reflect recrudescence of latent disease. In these global clinical trials, cases of serious opportunistic infections have been reported at an overall rate of 0.05 per 100 patient-years. Some cases of serious opportunistic infections and TB have been fatal [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] . Autoantibodies In the rheumatoid arthritis controlled trials, 12% of subjects treated with HUMIRA and 7% of placebo-treated subjects that had negative baseline ANA titers developed positive titers at week 24. Two subjects out of 3046 treated with HUMIRA developed clinical signs suggestive of new-onset lupus-like syndrome. The subjects improved following discontinuation of therapy. No subjects developed lupus nephritis or central nervous system symptoms. The impact of long-term treatment with HUMIRA on the development of autoimmune diseases is unknown. Liver Enzyme Elevations There have been reports of severe hepatic reactions including acute liver failure in subjects receiving TNF-blockers. In controlled Phase 3 trials of HUMIRA (40 mg SC every other week) in subjects with RA, PsA, and AS with control period duration ranging from 4 to 104 weeks, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 3.5% of HUMIRA-treated subjects and 1.5% of control-treated subjects. Since many of these subjects in these trials were also taking medications that cause liver enzyme elevations (e.g., NSAIDS, MTX), the relationship between HUMIRA and the liver enzyme elevations is not clear. In a controlled Phase 3 trial of HUMIRA in subjects with polyarticular JIA who were 4 to 17 years, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 4.4% of HUMIRA-treated subjects and 1.5% of control-treated subjects (ALT more common than AST); liver enzyme test elevations were more frequent among those treated with the combination of HUMIRA and MTX than those treated with HUMIRA alone. In general, these elevations did not lead to discontinuation of HUMIRA treatment. No ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in the open-label study of HUMIRA in subjects with polyarticular JIA who were 2 to <4 years. In controlled Phase 3 trials of HUMIRA (initial doses of 160 mg and 80 mg, or 80 mg and 40 mg on Days 1 and 15, respectively, followed by 40 mg every other week) in adult subjects with Crohn’s Disease with a control period duration ranging from 4 to 52 weeks, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 0.9% of HUMIRA-treated subjects and 0.9% of control-treated subjects. In the Phase 3 trial of HUMIRA in pediatric subjects with Crohn’s disease which evaluated efficacy and safety of two body weight based maintenance dose regimens following body weight based induction therapy up to 52 weeks of treatment, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 2.6% (5/192) of subjects, of whom 4 were receiving concomitant immunosuppressants at baseline; none of these subjects discontinued due to abnormalities in ALT tests. In controlled Phase 3 trials of HUMIRA (initial doses of 160 mg and 80 mg on Days 1 and 15 respectively, followed by 40 mg every other week) in adult subjects with UC with control period duration ranging from 1 to 52 weeks, ALT elevations ≥3 x ULN occurred in 1.5% of HUMIRA-treated subjects and 1.0% of control-treated subjects. In the controlled Phase 3 trial of HUMIRA in subjects with pediatric ulcerative colitis (N=93), which evaluated efficacy and safety of a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week (N=31) and a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week (N=32), following body weight based induction doses of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2 (N=63), or an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2 (N=30), ALT elevations ≥ 3 X ULN occurred in 1.1% (1/93) of subjects. In controlled Phase 3 trials of HUMIRA (initial dose of 80 mg then 40 mg every other week) in subjects with Ps with control period duration ranging from 12 to 24 weeks, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 1.8% of HUMIRA-treated subjects and 1.8% of control-treated subjects. In controlled trials of HUMIRA (initial doses of 160 mg at Week 0 and 80 mg at Week 2, followed by 40 mg every week starting at Week 4), in subjects with HS with a control period duration ranging from 12 to 16 weeks, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 0.3% of HUMIRA-treated subjects and 0.6% of control-treated subjects. In controlled trials of HUMIRA (initial doses of 80 mg at Week 0 followed by 40 mg every other week starting at Week 1) in adult subjects with uveitis with an exposure of 165.4 PYs and 119.8 PYs in HUMIRA-treated and control-treated subjects, respectively, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 2.4% of HUMIRA-treated subjects and 2.4% of control-treated subjects. Other Adverse Reactions Rheumatoid Arthritis Clinical Studies The data described below reflect exposure to HUMIRA in 2468 subjects, including 2073 exposed for 6 months, 1497 exposed for greater than one year and 1380 in adequate and well-controlled studies (Studies RA-I, RA-II, RA-III, and RA-IV). HUMIRA was studied primarily in placebo-controlled trials and in long-term follow up studies for up to 36 months duration. The population had a mean age of 54 years, 77% were female, 91% were Caucasian and had moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis. Most subjects received 40 mg HUMIRA every other week [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. Table 1 summarizes reactions reported at a rate of at least 5% in subjects treated with HUMIRA 40 mg every other week compared to placebo and with an incidence higher than placebo. In Study RA-III, the types and frequencies of adverse reactions in the second year open-label extension were similar to those observed in the one-year double-blind portion. Table 1. Adverse Reactions Reported by ≥5% of Subjects Treated with HUMIRA During Placebo-Controlled Period of Pooled RA Studies (Studies RA-I, RA-II, RA-III, and RA-IV) HUMIRA 40 mg subcutaneous Every Other Week Placebo (N=705) (N=690) Adverse Reaction (Preferred Term) Respiratory Upper respiratory infection 17% 13% Sinusitis 11% 9% Flu syndrome 7% 6% Gastrointestinal Nausea 9% 8% Abdominal pain 7% 4% Laboratory Tests* Laboratory test abnormal 8% 7% Hypercholesterolemia 6% 4% Hyperlipidemia 7% 5% Hematuria 5% 4% Alkaline phosphatase increased 5% 3% Other Headache 12% 8% Rash 12% 6% Accidental injury 10% 8% Injection site reaction ** 8% 1% Back pain 6% 4% Urinary tract infection 8% 5% Hypertension 5% 3% * Laboratory test abnormalities were reported as adverse reactions in European trials ** Does not include injection site erythema, itching, hemorrhage, pain or swelling Less Common Adverse Reactions in Rheumatoid Arthritis Clinical Studies Other infrequent serious adverse reactions that do not appear in the Warnings and Precautions or Adverse Reaction sections that occurred at an incidence of less than 5% in HUMIRA-treated subjects in RA studies (RA-I, RA-II, RA-III, and RA-IV) were: Body As A Whole: Pain in extremity, pelvic pain, surgery, thorax pain Cardiovascular System: Arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, chest pain, coronary artery disorder, heart arrest, hypertensive encephalopathy, myocardial infarct, palpitation, pericardial effusion, pericarditis, syncope, tachycardia Digestive System: Cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, esophagitis, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, hepatic necrosis, vomiting Endocrine System: Parathyroid disorder Hemic And Lymphatic System: Agranulocytosis, polycythemia Metabolic And Nutritional Disorders: Dehydration, healing abnormal, ketosis, paraproteinemia, peripheral edema Musculo-Skeletal System: Arthritis, bone disorder, bone fracture (not spontaneous), bone necrosis, joint disorder, muscle cramps, myasthenia, pyogenic arthritis, synovitis, tendon disorder Neoplasia: Adenoma Nervous System: Confusion, paresthesia, subdural hematoma, tremor Respiratory System: Asthma, bronchospasm, dyspnea, lung function decreased, pleural effusion Special Senses: Cataract Thrombosis: Thrombosis leg Urogenital System: Cystitis, kidney calculus, menstrual disorder Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis Clinical Studies In general, the adverse reactions in the HUMIRA-treated subjects in the polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) trials (Studies JIA-I and JIA-II) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ] were similar in frequency and type to those seen in adult subjects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] . Important findings and differences from adults are discussed in the following paragraphs. In Study JIA-I, HUMIRA was studied in 171 subjects who were 4 to 17 years of age, with polyarticular JIA. Severe adverse reactions reported in the study included neutropenia, streptococcal pharyngitis, increa
[truncated]

## Drug interactions
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Abatacept: Increased risk of serious infection. ( 5.1 , 5.11 , 7.2 ) Anakinra: Increased risk of serious infection. ( 5.1 , 5.7 , 7.2 ) Live vaccines: Avoid use with HUMIRA. ( 5.10, 7.3 ) 7.1 Methotrexate HUMIRA has been studied in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients taking concomitant methotrexate (MTX). Although MTX reduced the apparent adalimumab clearance, the data do not suggest the need for dose adjustment of either HUMIRA or MTX [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . 7.2 Biological Products In clinical studies in patients with RA, an increased risk of serious infections has been observed with the combination of TNF blockers with anakinra or abatacept, with no added benefit; therefore, use of HUMIRA with abatacept or anakinra is not recommended in patients with RA [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.11 )] . A higher rate of serious infections has also been observed in patients with RA treated with rituximab who received subsequent treatment with a TNF blocker. There is insufficient information regarding the concomitant use of HUMIRA and other biologic products for the treatment of RA, PsA, AS, CD, UC, Ps, HS and UV. Concomitant administration of HUMIRA with other biologic DMARDS (e.g., anakinra and abatacept) or other TNF blockers is not recommended based upon the possible increased risk for infections and other potential pharmacological interactions. 7.3 Live Vaccines Avoid the use of live vaccines with HUMIRA [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ) ] . 7.4 Cytochrome P450 Substrates The formation of CYP450 enzymes may be suppressed by increased concentrations of cytokines (e.g., TNFα, IL-6) during chronic inflammation. It is possible for a molecule that antagonizes cytokine activity, such as adalimumab, to influence the formation of CYP450 enzymes. Upon initiation or discontinuation of HUMIRA in patients being treated with CYP450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index, monitoring of the effect (e.g., warfarin) or drug concentration (e.g., cyclosporine or theophylline) is recommended and the individual dose of the drug product may be adjusted as needed.

## Use in specific populations
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available studies with use of adalimumab during pregnancy do not reliably establish an association between adalimumab and major birth defects. Clinical data are available from the Organization of Teratology Information Specialists (OTIS)/MotherToBaby HUMIRA Pregnancy Registry in pregnant women with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or Crohn’s disease (CD). Registry results showed a rate of 10% for major birth defects with first trimester use of adalimumab in pregnant women with RA or CD and a rate of 7.5% for major birth defects in the disease-matched comparison cohort. The lack of pattern of major birth defects is reassuring and differences between exposure groups may have impacted the occurrence of birth defects (see Data) . Adalimumab is actively transferred across the placenta during the third trimester of pregnancy and may affect immune response in the in-utero exposed infant (see Clinical Considerations) . In an embryo-fetal perinatal development study conducted in cynomolgus monkeys, no fetal harm or malformations were observed with intravenous administration of adalimumab during organogenesis and later in gestation, at doses that produced exposures up to approximately 373 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 40 mg subcutaneous without methotrexate (see Data) . The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2-4% and 15-20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Disease-associated maternal and embryo/fetal risk Published data suggest that the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes in women with RA or inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is associated with increased disease activity. Adverse pregnancy outcomes include preterm delivery (before 37 weeks of gestation), low birth weight (less than 2500 g) infants, and small for gestational age at birth. Fetal/Neonatal Adverse Reactions Monoclonal antibodies are increasingly transported across the placenta as pregnancy progresses, with the largest amount transferred during the third trimester (see Data) . Risks and benefits should be considered prior to administering live or live-attenuated vaccines to infants exposed to HUMIRA in utero [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ) ] . Data Human Data A prospective cohort pregnancy exposure registry conducted by OTIS/MotherToBaby in the U.S. and Canada between 2004 and 2016 compared the risk of major birth defects in live-born infants of 221 women (69 RA, 152 CD) treated with adalimumab during the first trimester and 106 women (74 RA, 32 CD) not treated with adalimumab. The proportion of major birth defects among live-born infants in the adalimumab-treated and untreated cohorts was 10% (8.7% RA, 10.5% CD) and 7.5% (6.8% RA, 9.4% CD), respectively. The lack of pattern of major birth defects is reassuring and differences between exposure groups may have impacted the occurrence of birth defects. This study cannot reliably establish whether there is an association between adalimumab and major birth defects because of methodological limitations of the registry, including small sample size, the voluntary nature of the study, and the non-randomized design. In an independent clinical study conducted in ten pregnant women with IBD treated with HUMIRA, adalimumab concentrations were measured in maternal serum as well as in cord blood (n=10) and infant serum (n=8) on the day of birth. The last dose of HUMIRA was given between 1 and 56 days prior to delivery. Adalimumab concentrations were 0.16-19.7 µg/mL in cord blood, 4.28-17.7 µg/mL in infant serum, and 0-16.1 µg/mL in maternal serum. In all but one case, the cord blood concentration of adalimumab was higher than the maternal serum concentration, suggesting adalimumab actively crosses the placenta. In addition, one infant had serum concentrations at each of the following: 6 weeks (1.94 µg/mL), 7 weeks (1.31 µg/mL), 8 weeks (0.93 µg/mL), and 11 weeks (0.53 µg/mL), suggesting adalimumab can be detected in the serum of infants exposed in utero for at least 3 months from birth. Animal Data In an embryo-fetal perinatal development study, pregnant cynomolgus monkeys received adalimumab from gestation days 20 to 97 at doses that produced exposures up to 373 times that achieved with the MRHD without methotrexate (on an AUC basis with maternal IV doses up to 100 mg/kg/week). Adalimumab did not elicit harm to the fetuses or malformations. 8.2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited data from case reports in the published literature describe the presence of adalimumab in human milk at infant doses of 0.1% to 1% of the maternal serum concentration. Published data suggest that the systemic exposure to a breastfed infant is expected to be low because adalimumab is a large molecule and is degraded in the gastrointestinal tract. However, the effects of local exposure in the gastrointestinal tract are unknown. There are no reports of adverse effects of adalimumab on the breastfed infant and no effects on milk production. The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother’s clinical need for HUMIRA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from HUMIRA or from the underlying maternal condition. 8.4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of HUMIRA have not been established in pediatric patients with psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, or plaque psoriasis. The safety and effectiveness of HUMIRA have been established for: reducing signs and symptoms of moderately to severely active polyarticular JIA in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older. the treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease in pediatric patients 6 years of age and older. the treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in pediatric patients 5 years of age and older. the treatment of moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in patients 12 years of age and older. the treatment of non-infectious intermediate, posterior, and panuveitis in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older. Due to its inhibition of TNFα, HUMIRA administered during pregnancy could affect immune response in the in utero -exposed newborn and infant. Data from eight infants exposed to HUMIRA in utero suggest adalimumab crosses the placenta [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 )] . The clinical significance of elevated adalimumab concentrations in infants is unknown. The safety of administering live or live-attenuated vaccines in exposed infants is unknown. Risks and benefits should be considered prior to vaccinating (live or live-attenuated) exposed infants. Post-marketing cases of lymphoma, including hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma and other malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents, and young adults who received treatment with TNF-blockers including HUMIRA [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] . Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis The safety and effectiveness of HUMIRA for the treatment of moderately to severely active polyarticular JIA have been established in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older. Use for this indication is supported by evidence from an adequate and well-controlled study (Study JIA-I) in patients 4 to 17 years of age [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ] and a safety study (Study JIA-II) in patients 2 to <4 years of age where the safety profile was similar to patients 4 to 17 years of age [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ) ] . HUMIRA has not been studied in patients with polyarticular JIA less than 2 years of age or in patients with a weight below 10 kg. The safety of HUMIRA in pediatric patients in the polyarticular JIA trials was generally similar to that observed in adults with certain exceptions [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ) ] . The safety and effectiveness of HUMIRA have not been established in pediatric patients with JIA less than 2 years of age. Pediatric Crohn’s Disease The safety and effectiveness of HUMIRA for the treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease have been established in pediatric patients 6 years of age and older. Use of HUMIRA for this indication is supported by evidence from adequate and well-controlled studies in adults with additional data from a randomized, double-blind, 52-week clinical study of two dose concentrations of HUMIRA in 192 pediatric patients (6 years to 17 years of age) [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 , 12.3 ), Clinical Studies ( 14.6 ) ] . The adverse reaction profile in patients 6 years to 17 years of age was similar to adults. The safety and effectiveness of HUMIRA have not been established in pediatric patients with Crohn’s disease less than 6 years of age. Pediatric Ulcerative Colitis The safety and effectiveness of HUMIRA for the treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis have been established in pediatric patients 5 years of age and older. Use of HUMIRA for this indication is supported by evidence from adequate and well-controlled studies in adults with additional data from a randomized, double-blind, 52-week clinical study of two dose concentrations of HUMIRA in 93 pediatric patients (5 years to 17 years of age) [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14.8 ) ] . The adverse reaction profile in patients 5 years to 17 years of age was similar to adults. The effectiveness of HUMIRA has not been established in patients who have lost response or were intolerant to TNF blockers. The safety and effectiveness of HUMIRA have not been established in pediatric patients with ulcerative colitis less than 5 years of age. Pediatric Uveitis The safety and effectiveness of HUMIRA for the treatment of non-infectious, intermediate, posterior, and panuveitis have been established in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older. Use of HUMIRA for this indication is supported by evidence from adequate and well-controlled studies of HUMIRA in adults and a 2:1 randomized, controlled clinical study in 90 pediatric patients [see Clinical Studies ( 14.12 ) ] . The safety and effectiveness of HUMIRA have not been established in pediatric patients with uveitis less than 2 years of age. Hidradenitis Suppurativa Use of HUMIRA in pediatric patients 12 years of age and older for the treatment of moderate to severe HS is supported by evidence from adequate and well-controlled studies of HUMIRA in adult HS patients. Additional population pharmacokinetic modeling and simulation predicted that weight-based dosing of HUMIRA in pediatric patients 12 years of age and older can provide generally similar exposure to adult HS patients. The course of HS is sufficiently similar in adult and adolescent patients to allow extrapolation of data from adult to adolescent patients. The recommended dosage in pediatric patients 12 years of age or older is based on body weight [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) , and Clinical Studies ( 14.10 ) ] . The safety and effectiveness of HUMIRA have not been established in patients less than 12 years of age with HS. 8.5 Geriatric Use In clinical studies of RA (Studies RA-I, RA-II, RA-III, and RA-IV), a total of 519 subjects 65 years of age and older, including 107 subjects 75 years of age and older, received HUMIRA. No overall difference in effectiveness was observed between these subjects and younger adult subjects. The frequency of serious infection and malignancy among HUMIRA treated subjects 65 years of age and older was higher than for those less than 65 years of age. Consider the benefits and risks of HUMIRA in patients 65 years of age and older. In patients treated with HUMIRA, closely monitor for the development of infection or malignancy [see Wa
[truncated]

## Overdosage
10 OVERDOSAGE Doses up to 10 mg/kg have been administered to patients in clinical trials without evidence of dose-limiting toxicities. In case of overdosage, it is recommended that the patient be monitored for any signs or symptoms of adverse reactions or effects and appropriate symptomatic treatment instituted immediately. Consider contacting the Poison Help line (1-800-222-1222) or medical toxicologist for additional overdose management recommendations.

## Description
11 DESCRIPTION Adalimumab is a tumor necrosis factor blocker. Adalimumab is a recombinant human IgG1 monoclonal antibody created using phage display technology resulting in an antibody with human derived heavy and light chain variable regions and human IgG1:k constant regions. Adalimumab is produced by recombinant DNA technology in a mammalian cell (Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO)) expression system and is purified by a process that includes specific viral inactivation and removal steps. It consists of 1330 amino acids and has a molecular weight of approximately 148 kilodaltons. HUMIRA (adalimumab) injection is supplied as a sterile, preservative-free solution for subcutaneous administration. The drug product is supplied as either a single-dose, prefilled pen (HUMIRA Pen) or as a single-dose, 1 mL prefilled glass syringe. Enclosed within the pen is a single-dose, 1 mL prefilled glass syringe. The solution of HUMIRA is clear and colorless, with a pH of about 5.2. Each 80 mg/0.8 mL prefilled syringe or prefilled pen delivers 0.8 mL (80 mg) of drug product. Each 0.8 mL of HUMIRA contains adalimumab (80 mg), mannitol (33.6 mg), polysorbate 80 (0.8 mg), and Water for Injection, USP. Each 40 mg/0.4 mL prefilled syringe or prefilled pen delivers 0.4 mL (40 mg) of drug product. Each 0.4 mL of HUMIRA contains adalimumab (40 mg), mannitol (16.8 mg), polysorbate 80 (0.4 mg), and Water for Injection, USP. Each 40 mg/0.8 mL prefilled syringe or prefilled pen delivers 0.8 mL (40 mg) of drug product. Each 0.8 mL of HUMIRA contains adalimumab (40 mg), citric acid monohydrate (1.04 mg), dibasic sodium phosphate dihydrate (1.22 mg), mannitol (9.6 mg), monobasic sodium phosphate dihydrate (0.69 mg), polysorbate 80 (0.8 mg), sodium chloride (4.93 mg), sodium citrate (0.24 mg) and Water for Injection, USP. Sodium hydroxide is added as necessary to adjust pH. Each 20 mg/0.2 mL prefilled syringe delivers 0.2 mL (20 mg) of drug product. Each 0.2 mL of HUMIRA contains adalimumab (20 mg), mannitol (8.4 mg), polysorbate 80 (0.2 mg), and Water for Injection, USP. Each 10 mg/0.1 mL prefilled syringe delivers 0.1 mL (10 mg) of drug product. Each 0.1 mL of HUMIRA contains adalimumab (10 mg), mannitol (4.2 mg), polysorbate 80 (0.1 mg), and Water for Injection, USP.

## Clinical pharmacology
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Adalimumab binds specifically to TNF-alpha and blocks its interaction with the p55 and p75 cell surface TNF receptors. Adalimumab also lyses surface TNF expressing cells in vitro in the presence of complement. Adalimumab does not bind or inactivate lymphotoxin (TNF-beta). TNF is a naturally occurring cytokine that is involved in normal inflammatory and immune responses. Elevated concentrations of TNF are found in the synovial fluid of patients with RA, JIA, PsA, and AS and play an important role in both the pathologic inflammation and the joint destruction that are hallmarks of these diseases. Increased concentrations of TNF are also found in psoriasis plaques. In Ps, treatment with HUMIRA may reduce the epidermal thickness and infiltration of inflammatory cells. The relationship between these pharmacodynamic activities and the mechanism(s) by which HUMIRA exerts its clinical effects is unknown. Adalimumab also modulates biological responses that are induced or regulated by TNF, including changes in the concentrations of adhesion molecules responsible for leukocyte migration (ELAM-1, VCAM-1, and ICAM-1 with an IC 50 of 1-2 X 10 -10 M). 12.2 Pharmacodynamics After treatment with HUMIRA, a decrease in concentrations of acute phase reactants of inflammation (C-reactive protein [CRP] and erythrocyte sedimentation rate [ESR]) and serum cytokines (IL-6) was observed compared to baseline in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. A decrease in CRP concentrations was also observed in patients with Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis and hidradenitis suppurativa. Serum concentrations of matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-1 and MMP-3) that produce tissue remodeling responsible for cartilage destruction were also decreased after HUMIRA administration. For pediatric patients 5 years to 17 years with ulcerative colitis, the recommended dosage of HUMIRA is based on modeled dose/exposure-efficacy relationships and pharmacokinetic data. There are no anticipated clinically relevant differences in efficacy between the studied higher dosage administered in the clinical trial (Weeks 0 to 52 in Study PUC-I) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.8 ) ] and the recommended dosage [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) ]. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of adalimumab were linear over the dose range of 0.5 to 10 mg/kg following administration of a single intravenous dose (HUMIRA is not approved for intravenous use). Following 20, 40, and 80 mg every other week and every week subcutaneous administration, adalimumab mean serum trough concentrations at steady state increased approximately proportionally with dose in RA patients. The mean terminal half-life was approximately 2 weeks, ranging from 10 to 20 days across studies. Healthy subjects and patients with RA displayed similar adalimumab pharmacokinetics. Adalimumab exposure in patients treated with 80 mg every other week is estimated to be comparable with that in patients treated with 40 mg every week. Absorption The average absolute bioavailability of adalimumab following a single 40 mg subcutaneous dose was 64%. The mean time to reach the maximum concentration was 5.5 days (131 ± 56 hours) and the maximum serum concentration was 4.7 ± 1.6 mcg/mL in healthy subjects following a single 40 mg subcutaneous administration of HUMIRA. Distribution The distribution volume (V ss ) ranged from 4.7 to 6.0 L following intravenous administration of doses ranging from 0.25 to 10 mg/kg in RA patients. Elimination The single dose pharmacokinetics of adalimumab in RA patients were determined in several studies with intravenous doses ranging from 0.25 to 10 mg/kg. The systemic clearance of adalimumab is approximately 12 mL/hr. In long-term studies with dosing more than two years, there was no evidence of changes in clearance over time in RA patients. Patient Population Rheumatoid Arthritis and Ankylosing Spondylitis: In patients receiving 40 mg HUMIRA every other week, adalimumab mean steady-state trough concentrations were approximately 5 mcg/mL and 8 to 9 mcg/mL, without and with MTX concomitant treatment, respectively. Adalimumab concentrations in the synovial fluid from five rheumatoid arthritis patients ranged from 31 to 96% of those in serum. The pharmacokinetics of adalimumab in patients with AS were similar to those in patients with RA. Psoriatic Arthritis : In patients receiving 40 mg every other week, adalimumab mean steady-state trough concentrations were 6 to 10 mcg/mL and 8.5 to 12 mcg/mL, without and with MTX concomitant treatment, respectively. Plaque Psoriasis : Adalimumab mean steady-state trough concentration was approximately 5 to 6 mcg/mL during HUMIRA 40 mg every other week treatment. Adult Uveitis : Adalimumab mean steady concentration was approximately 8 to 10 mcg/mL during HUMIRA 40 mg every other week treatment. Adult Hidradenitis Suppurativa : Adalimumab trough concentrations were approximately 7 to 8 mcg/mL at Week 2 and Week 4, respectively, after receiving 160 mg on Week 0 followed by 80 mg on Week 2. Mean steady-state trough concentrations at Week 12 through Week 36 were approximately 7 to 11 mcg/mL during HUMIRA 40 mg every week treatment. Adult Crohn’s Disease: Adalimumab mean trough concentrations were approximately 12 mcg/mL at Week 2 and Week 4 after receiving 160 mg on Week 0 followed by 80 mg on Week 2. Mean steady-state trough concentrations were 7 mcg/mL at Week 24 and Week 56 during HUMIRA 40 mg every other week treatment. Adult Ulcerative Colitis : Adalimumab mean trough concentrations were approximately 12 mcg/mL at Week 2 and Week 4 after receiving 160 mg on Week 0 followed by 80 mg on Week 2. Mean steady-state trough concentrations were approximately 8 mcg/mL and 15 mcg/mL at Week 52 after receiving a dose of HUMIRA 40 mg every other week and 40 mg every week, respectively. Anti-Drug Antibody Effects on Pharmacokinetics Rheumatoid Arthritis : A trend toward higher apparent clearance of adalimumab in the presence of anti-adalimumab antibodies was identified. Pediatric Ulcerative Colitis: Antibodies to adalimumab by ECL assay were associated with reduced serum adalimumab concentrations in pediatric patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis. Hidradenitis Suppurativa: In subjects with moderate to severe HS, antibodies to adalimumab were associated with reduced serum adalimumab concentrations. In general, the extent of reduction in serum adalimumab concentrations is greater with increasing titers of antibodies to adalimumab. Specific Populations Geriatric Patient s : A lower clearance with increasing age was observed in patients with RA aged 40 to >75 years. Pediatric Patien ts : Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis : 4 years to 17 years of age: The adalimumab mean steady-state trough concentrations were 6.8 mcg/mL and 10.9 mcg/mL in patients weighing <30 kg receiving 20 mg HUMIRA subcutaneously every other week as monotherapy or with concomitant MTX, respectively. The adalimumab mean steady-state trough concentrations were 6.6 mcg/mL and 8.1 mcg/mL in patients weighing ≥30 kg receiving 40 mg HUMIRA subcutaneously every other week as monotherapy or with MTX concomitant treatment, respectively. 2 years to <4 years of age or 4 years of age and older weighing <15 kg: The adalimumab mean steady-state trough adalimumab concentrations were 6.0 mcg/mL and 7.9 mcg/mL in patients receiving HUMIRA subcutaneously every other week as monotherapy or with MTX concomitant treatment, respectively. Pediatric Hidradenitis Suppurativa : Adalimumab concentrations in adolescent patients with HS receiving the recommended dosage regimens are predicted to be similar to those observed in adult subjects with HS based on population pharmacokinetic modeling and simulation. Pediatric Crohn's Disease : Adalimumab mean ± SD concentrations were 15.7±6.5 mcg/mL at Week 4 following 160 mg at Week 0 and 80 mg at Week 2, and 10.5±6.0 mcg/mL at Week 52 following 40 mg every other week dosing in patients weighing ≥ 40 kg. Adalimumab mean ± SD concentrations were 10.6±6.1 mcg/mL at Week 4 following dosing 80 mg at Week 0 and 40 mg at Week 2, and 6.9±3.6 mcg/mL at Week 52 following 20 mg every other week dosing in patients weighing < 40 kg. Pediatric Ulcerative Colitis : The adalimumab mean steady-state trough concentration was 5.0±3.3 mcg/mL at Week 52 following subcutaneous administration of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week in pediatric UC patients 5 years to 17 years of age. In patients who received 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week, the mean steady-state trough concentration was 15.7±5.6 mcg/mL at Week 52 in pediatric UC patients 5 years to 17 years of age. Male and Female Patients : No gender-related pharmacokinetic differences were observed after correction for a patient’s body weight. Healthy subjects and patients with rheumatoid arthritis displayed similar adalimumab pharmacokinetics. Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment: No pharmacokinetic data are available in patients with hepatic or renal impairment. Rheumatoid factor or CRP concentrations: Minor increases in apparent clearance were predicted in RA patients receiving doses lower than the recommended dose and in RA patients with high rheumatoid factor or CRP concentrations. These increases are not likely to be clinically important. Drug Interaction Studies: Methotrexate : MTX reduced adalimumab apparent clearance after single and multiple dosing by 29% and 44% respectively, in patients with RA [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) ] .

## Mechanism of action
12.1 Mechanism of Action Adalimumab binds specifically to TNF-alpha and blocks its interaction with the p55 and p75 cell surface TNF receptors. Adalimumab also lyses surface TNF expressing cells in vitro in the presence of complement. Adalimumab does not bind or inactivate lymphotoxin (TNF-beta). TNF is a naturally occurring cytokine that is involved in normal inflammatory and immune responses. Elevated concentrations of TNF are found in the synovial fluid of patients with RA, JIA, PsA, and AS and play an important role in both the pathologic inflammation and the joint destruction that are hallmarks of these diseases. Increased concentrations of TNF are also found in psoriasis plaques. In Ps, treatment with HUMIRA may reduce the epidermal thickness and infiltration of inflammatory cells. The relationship between these pharmacodynamic activities and the mechanism(s) by which HUMIRA exerts its clinical effects is unknown. Adalimumab also modulates biological responses that are induced or regulated by TNF, including changes in the concentrations of adhesion molecules responsible for leukocyte migration (ELAM-1, VCAM-1, and ICAM-1 with an IC 50 of 1-2 X 10 -10 M).

## Clinical studies
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Figure 1. Study RA-III ACR 20 Responses over 52 Weeks Figure 2. ASAS 20 Response By Visit, Study AS-I Figure 3: Kaplan-Meier Curves Summarizing Time to Treatment Failure on or after Week 6 (Study UV I) or Week 2 (Study UV II) Study UV I Figure 4: Kaplan-Meier Curves Summarizing Time to Treatment Failure (Study PUV-I) 14.1 Clinical Studies in Rheumatoid Arthritis The efficacy and safety of HUMIRA were assessed in five randomized, double-blind studies in subjects ≥18 years of age with active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) diagnosed according to American College of Rheumatology (ACR) criteria. Subjects had at least 6 swollen and 9 tender joints. HUMIRA was administered subcutaneously in combination with methotrexate (MTX) (12.5 to 25 mg, Studies RA-I, RA-III and RA-V) or as monotherapy (Studies RA-II and RA-V) or with other disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) (Study RA-IV). Study RA-I evaluated 271 subjects who had failed therapy with at least one but no more than four DMARDs and had inadequate response to MTX. Doses of 20, 40 or 80 mg of HUMIRA or placebo were given every other week for 24 weeks. Study RA-II evaluated 544 subjects who had failed therapy with at least one DMARD. Doses of placebo, 20 or 40 mg of HUMIRA were given as monotherapy every other week or weekly for 26 weeks. Study RA-III evaluated 619 subjects who had an inadequate response to MTX. Subjects received placebo, 40 mg of HUMIRA every other week with placebo injections on alternate weeks, or 20 mg of HUMIRA weekly for up to 52 weeks. Study RA-III had an additional primary endpoint at 52 weeks of inhibition of disease progression (as detected by X-ray results). Upon completion of the first 52 weeks, 457 subjects enrolled in an open-label extension phase in which 40 mg of HUMIRA was administered every other week for up to 5 years. Study RA-IV assessed safety in 636 subjects who were either DMARD-naive or were permitted to remain on their pre-existing rheumatologic therapy provided that therapy was stable for a minimum of 28 days. Subjects were randomized to 40 mg of HUMIRA or placebo every other week for 24 weeks. Study RA-V evaluated 799 subjects with moderately to severely active RA of less than 3 years duration who were ≥18 years old and MTX naïve. Subjects were randomized to receive either MTX (optimized to 20 mg/week by week 8), HUMIRA 40 mg every other week or HUMIRA/MTX combination therapy for 104 weeks. Subjects were evaluated for signs and symptoms, and for radiographic progression of joint damage. The median disease duration among subjects enrolled in the study was 5 months. The median MTX dose achieved was 20 mg. Clinical Response The percent of HUMIRA treated subjects achieving ACR 20, 50 and 70 responses in Studies RA-II and III are shown in Table 3. Table 3. ACR Responses in Studies RA-II and RA-III (Percent of Subjects) Study RA-II Monotherapy (26 weeks) Study RA-III Methotrexate Combination (24 and 52 weeks) Response Placebo HUMIRA HUMIRA Placebo/MTX HUMIRA/MTX 40 mg every 40 mg weekly 40 mg every other week other week N=110 N=113 N=103 N=200 N=207 ACR20 Month 6 19% 46%* 53%* 30% 63%* Month 12 NA NA NA 24% 59%* ACR50 Month 6 8% 22%* 35%* 10% 39%* Month 12 NA NA NA 10% 42%* ACR70 Month 6 2% 12%* 18%* 3% 21%* Month 12 NA NA NA 5% 23%* * p<0.01, HUMIRA vs. placebo The results of Study RA-I were similar to Study RA-III; subjects receiving HUMIRA 40 mg every other week in Study RA-I also achieved ACR 20, 50 and 70 response rates of 65%, 52% and 24%, respectively, compared to placebo responses of 13%, 7% and 3% respectively, at 6 months (p<0.01). The results of the components of the ACR response criteria for Studies RA-II and RA-III are shown in Table 4. ACR response rates and improvement in all components of ACR response were maintained to week 104. Over the 2 years in Study RA-III, 20% of HUMIRA subjects receiving 40 mg every other week achieved a major clinical response, defined as maintenance of an ACR 70 response over a 6-month period. ACR responses were maintained in similar proportions of subjects for up to 5 years with continuous HUMIRA treatment in the open-label portion of Study RA-III. Table 4. Components of ACR Response in Studies RA-II and RA-III Study RA-II Study RA-III Parameter (median) Placebo N=110 HUMIRA a N=113 Placebo/MTX N=200 HUMIRA a /MTX N=207 Baseline Wk 26 Baseline Wk 26 Baseline Wk 24 Baseline Wk 24 Number of tender joints (0-68) 35 26 31 16* 26 15 24 8* Number of swollen joints (0-66) 19 16 18 10* 17 11 18 5* Physician global assessment b 7.0 6.1 6.6 3.7* 6.3 3.5 6.5 2.0* Patient global assessment b 7.5 6.3 7.5 4.5* 5.4 3.9 5.2 2.0* Pain b 7.3 6.1 7.3 4.1* 6.0 3.8 5.8 2.1* Disability index (HAQ) c 2.0 1.9 1.9 1.5* 1.5 1.3 1.5 0.8* CRP (mg/dL) 3.9 4.3 4.6 1.8* 1.0 0.9 1.0 0.4* a 40 mg HUMIRA administered every other week b Visual analogue scale; 0 = best, 10 = worst c Disability Index of the Health Assessment Questionnaire; 0 = best, 3 = worst, measures the patient’s ability to perform the following: dress/groom, arise, eat, walk, reach, grip, maintain hygiene, and maintain daily activity * p<0.001, HUMIRA vs. placebo, based on mean change from baseline The time course of ACR 20 response for Study RA-III is shown in Figure 1. In Study RA-III, 85% of subjects with ACR 20 responses at week 24 maintained the response at 52 weeks. The time course of ACR 20 response for Study RA-I and Study RA-II were similar. Figure 1. Study RA-III ACR 20 Responses over 52 Weeks In Study RA-IV, 53% of subjects treated with HUMIRA 40 mg every other week plus standard of care had an ACR 20 response at week 24 compared to 35% on placebo plus standard of care (p<0.001). No unique adverse reactions related to the combination of HUMIRA (adalimumab) and other DMARDs were observed. In Study RA-V with MTX naïve subjects with recent onset RA, the combination treatment with HUMIRA plus MTX led to greater percentages of subjects achieving ACR responses than either MTX monotherapy or HUMIRA monotherapy at Week 52 and responses were sustained at Week 104 (see Table 5). Table 5. ACR Response in Study RA-V (Percent of Subjects) Response MTX b N=257 HUMIRA c N=274 HUMIRA/MTX N=268 ACR20 Week 52 Week 104 63% 56% 54% 49% 73% 69% ACR50 Week 52 Week 104 46% 43% 41% 37% 62% 59% ACR70 Week 52 Week 104 27% 28% 26% 28% 46% 47% Major Clinical Response a 28% 25% 49% a Major clinical response is defined as achieving an ACR70 response for a continuous six month period b p<0.05, HUMIRA/MTX vs. MTX for ACR 20 p<0.001, HUMIRA/MTX vs. MTX for ACR 50 and 70, and Major Clinical Response c p<0.001, HUMIRA/MTX vs. HUMIRA At Week 52, all individual components of the ACR response criteria for Study RA-V improved in the HUMIRA/MTX group and improvements were maintained to Week 104. Radiographic Response In Study RA-III, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in Total Sharp Score (TSS) and its components, the erosion score and Joint Space Narrowing (JSN) score, at month 12 compared to baseline. At baseline, the median TSS was approximately 55 in the placebo and 40 mg every other week groups. The results are shown in Table 6. HUMIRA/MTX treated subjects demonstrated less radiographic progression than subjects receiving MTX alone at 52 weeks. Table 6. Radiographic Mean Changes Over 12 Months in Study RA-III Placebo/MTX HUMIRA/MTX 40 mg every other week Placebo/MTX- HUMIRA/MTX (95% Confidence Interval*) P-value** Total Sharp score 2.7 0.1 2.6 (1.4, 3.8) <0.001 Erosion score 1.6 0.0 1.6 (0.9, 2.2) <0.001 JSN score 1.0 0.1 0.9 (0.3, 1.4) 0.002 *95% confidence intervals for the differences in change scores between MTX and HUMIRA. **Based on rank analysis In the open-label extension of Study RA-III, 77% of the original subjects treated with any dose of HUMIRA were evaluated radiographically at 2 years. Subjects maintained inhibition of structural damage, as measured by the TSS. Fifty-four percent had no progression of structural damage as defined by a change in the TSS of zero or less. Fifty-five percent (55%) of subjects originally treated with 40 mg HUMIRA every other week have been evaluated radiographically at 5 years. Subjects had continued inhibition of structural damage with 50% showing no progression of structural damage defined by a change in the TSS of zero or less. In Study RA-V, structural joint damage was assessed as in Study RA-III. Greater inhibition of radiographic progression, as assessed by changes in TSS, erosion score and JSN was observed in the HUMIRA/MTX combination group as compared to either the MTX or HUMIRA monotherapy group at Week 52 as well as at Week 104 (see Table 7). Table 7. Radiographic Mean Change* in Study RA-V MTX a N=257 HUMIRA a,b N=274 HUMIRA/MTX N=268 52 Weeks Total Sharp score 5.7 (4.2, 7.3) 3.0 (1.7, 4.3) 1.3 (0.5, 2.1) Erosion score 3.7 (2.7, 4.8) 1.7 (1.0, 2.4) 0.8 (0.4, 1.2) JSN score 2.0 (1.2, 2.8) 1.3 (0.5, 2.1) 0.5 (0.0, 1.0) 104 Weeks Total Sharp score 10.4 (7.7, 13.2) 5.5 (3.6, 7.4) 1.9 (0.9, 2.9) Erosion score 6.4 (4.6, 8.2) 3.0 (2.0, 4.0) 1.0 (0.4, 1.6) JSN score 4.1 (2.7, 5.4) 2.6 (1.5, 3.7) 0.9 (0.3, 1.5) * mean (95% confidence interval) a p<0.001, HUMIRA/MTX vs. MTX at 52 and 104 weeks and for HUMIRA/MTX vs. HUMIRA at 104 weeks b p<0.01, for HUMIRA/MTX vs. HUMIRA at 52 weeks Physical Function Response In studies RA-I through IV, HUMIRA showed significantly greater improvement than placebo in the disability index of Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ-DI) from baseline to the end of study, and significantly greater improvement than placebo in the health-outcomes as assessed by The Short Form Health Survey (SF 36). Improvement was seen in both the Physical Component Summary (PCS) and the Mental Component Summary (MCS). In Study RA-III, the mean (95% CI) improvement in HAQ-DI from baseline at week 52 was 0.60 (0.55, 0.65) for the HUMIRA subjects and 0.25 (0.17, 0.33) for placebo/MTX (p<0.001) subjects. Sixty-three percent of HUMIRA-treated subjects achieved a 0.5 or greater improvement in HAQ-DI at week 52 in the double-blind portion of the study. Eighty-two percent of these subjects maintained that improvement through week 104 and a similar proportion of subjects maintained this response through week 260 (5 years) of open-label treatment. Mean improvement in the SF-36 was maintained through the end of measurement at week 156 (3 years). In Study RA-V, the HAQ-DI and the physical component of the SF-36 showed greater improvement (p<0.001) for the HUMIRA/MTX combination therapy group versus either the MTX monotherapy or the HUMIRA monotherapy group at Week 52, which was maintained through Week 104. 14.2 Clinical Studies in Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis The safety and efficacy of HUMIRA was assessed in two studies (Studies JIA-I and JIA-II) in subjects with active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA). Study JIA-I The safety and efficacy of HUMIRA were assessed in a multicenter, randomized, withdrawal, double-blind, parallel-group study in 171 subjects who were 4 to 17 years of age with polyarticular JIA. In the study, the subjects were stratified into two groups: MTX-treated or non-MTX-treated. All subjects had to show signs of active moderate or severe disease despite previous treatment with NSAIDs, analgesics, corticosteroids, or DMARDS. Subjects who received prior treatment with any biologic DMARDS were excluded from the study. The study included four phases: an open-label lead in phase (OL-LI; 16 weeks), a double-blind randomized withdrawal phase (DB; 32 weeks), an open-label extension phase (OLE-BSA; up to 136 weeks), and an open-label fixed dose phase (OLE-FD; 16 weeks). In the first three phases of the study, HUMIRA was administered based on body surface area at a dose of 24 mg/m 2 up to a maximum total body dose of 40 mg subcutaneously (SC) every other week. In the OLE-FD phase, the subjects were treated with 20 mg of HUMIRA SC every other week if their weight was less than 30 kg and with 40 mg of H
[truncated]

## How supplied
16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING HUMIRA ® (adalimumab) is supplied as a preservative-free, sterile, clear and colorless solution for subcutaneous administration. The following packaging configurations are available. HUMIRA Pen Carton - 40 mg/0.4 mL HUMIRA is supplied in a carton containing two alcohol preps and two dose trays. Each dose tray consists of a single-dose pen, containing a 1 mL prefilled glass syringe with a fixed thin wall, ½ inch needle, providing 40 mg/0.4 mL of HUMIRA. The black needle cover is not made with natural rubber latex. The NDC number is 83457-554-02 HUMIRA Pen Carton – 80 mg/0.8 mL HUMIRA is supplied in a carton containing two alcohol preps and two dose trays. Each dose tray consists of a single-dose pen, containing a 1 mL prefilled glass syringe with a fixed thin wall, ½ inch needle, providing 80 mg/0.8 mL of HUMIRA. The black needle cover is not made with natural rubber latex. The NDC number is 83457-124-02. Prefilled Syringe Carton - 40 mg/0.4 mL HUMIRA is supplied in a carton containing two alcohol preps and two dose trays. Each dose tray consists of a single-dose, 1 mL prefilled glass syringe with a fixed thin wall, ½ inch needle, providing 40 mg/0.4 mL of HUMIRA. The black needle cover is not made with natural rubber latex. The NDC number is 83457-243-02. Prefilled Syringe Carton - 20 mg/0.2 mL HUMIRA is supplied in a carton containing two alcohol preps and two dose trays. Each dose tray consists of a single-dose, 1 mL prefilled glass syringe with a fixed thin wall, ½ inch needle, providing 20 mg/0.2 mL of HUMIRA. The black needle cover is not made with natural rubber latex. The NDC number is 83457-616-02. Prefilled Syringe Carton - 10 mg/0.1 mL HUMIRA is supplied in a carton containing two alcohol preps and two dose trays. Each dose tray consists of a single-dose, 1 mL prefilled glass syringe with a fixed thin wall, ½ inch needle, providing 10 mg/0.1 mL of HUMIRA. The black needle cover is not made with natural rubber latex. The NDC number is 83457-817-02. Storage and Stability Do not use beyond the expiration date on the container. HUMIRA must be refrigerated at 36°F to 46°F (2°C to 8°C). DO NOT FREEZE. Do not use if frozen even if it has been thawed. Store in original carton until time of administration to protect from light. If needed, for example when traveling, HUMIRA may be stored at room temperature up to a maximum of 77°F (25°C) for a period of up to 14 days, with protection from light. HUMIRA should be discarded if not used within the 14-day period. Record the date when HUMIRA is first removed from the refrigerator in the spaces provided on the carton and dose tray. Do not store HUMIRA in extreme heat or cold.

## Information for patients
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient or caregiver to read the FDA-approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide and Instructions for Use ). Infections Inform patients that HUMIRA may lower the ability of their immune system to fight infections. Instruct patients of the importance of contacting their doctor if they develop any symptoms of infection, including tuberculosis, invasive fungal infections, and reactivation of hepatitis B virus infections [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.4 )] . Malignancies Counsel patients about the risk of malignancies while receiving HUMIRA [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if they experience any symptoms of severe hypersensitivity reactions. Advise latex-sensitive patients that the needle cap of the HUMIRA 40 mg/0.8 mL Pen and 40 mg/0.8 mL prefilled syringe may contain natural rubber latex [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) , How Supplied/Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] . Other Medical Conditions Advise patients to report any signs of new or worsening medical conditions such as congestive heart failure, neurological disease, autoimmune disorders, or cytopenias. Advise patients to report any symptoms suggestive of a cytopenia such as bruising, bleeding, or persistent fever [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 , 5.6 , 5.8 , 5.9 )] . Instructions on Injection Technique Inform patients that the first injection is to be performed under the supervision of a qualified health care professional. If a patient or caregiver is to administer HUMIRA, instruct them in injection techniques and assess their ability to inject subcutaneously to ensure the proper administration of HUMIRA [see Instructions for Use ]. For patients who will use the HUMIRA Pen, tell them that they: Will hear a loud ‘click’ when the plum-colored activator button is pressed. The loud click means the start of the injection. Must keep holding the HUMIRA Pen against their squeezed, raised skin until all of the medicine is injected. This can take up to 15 seconds. Will know that the injection has finished when the yellow marker fully appears in the window view and stops moving. Instruct patients to dispose of their used needles and syringes or used Pen in a FDA-cleared sharps disposal container immediately after use. Instruct patients not to dispose of loose needles and syringes or Pen in their household trash. Instruct patients that if they do not have a FDA-cleared sharps disposal container, they may use a household container that is made of a heavy-duty plastic, can be closed with a tight-fitting and puncture-resistant lid without sharps being able to come out, upright and stable during use, leak-resistant, and properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container. Instruct patients that when their sharps disposal container is almost full, they will need to follow their community guidelines for the correct way to dispose of their sharps disposal container. Instruct patients that there may be state or local laws regarding disposal of used needles and syringes. Refer patients to the FDA’s website at http://www.fda.gov/safesharpsdisposal for more information about safe sharps disposal, and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that they live in. Instruct patients not to dispose of their used sharps disposal container in their household trash unless their community guidelines permit this. Instruct patients not to recycle their used sharps disposal container. AbbVie Inc. North Chicago, IL 60064, U.S.A. US License Number 1889 20099010 12/2025 Manufactured for: Cordavis Trading Limited Dublin, Ireland

