effective_time:
  20091118
drug_interactions:
  DRUG INTERACTIONS General: Sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects of methyldopa, mecamylamine, reserpine and veratrum alkaloids. Other Central Nervous System Depressants: Patients receiving other opioid analgesics, sedatives or hypnotics, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, centrally acting anti-emetics, phenothiazines or other tranquilizers, or alcohol concomitantly with this combination product may exhibit additive depressant effects on the central nervous system. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine and antihistamines with alcohol and other CNS depressants may have an additive effect. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors: Dihydrocodeine, like all opioids, interact with monoamine oxidase inhibitors causing central nervous system excitation and hypertension. MAO inhibitors and beta-adrenergic blockers increase the effects of sympathomimetics. They may also prolong and intensify the anticholinergic effects of antihistamines.
geriatric_use:
  Geriatric Use: POLY HIST DHC Liquid should be given with caution to the elderly. Hepatic Impairment: POLYHIST DHC Liquid should be given with caution to patients with hepatic insufficiency. Since, dihydrocodeine is metabolized by the liver; the effects of this combination product should be monitored closely in such patients. Renal Impairment: POLY HIST DHC Liquid should be used with caution and in reduced dosage in the presence of impaired renal function. Pancreatic/Biliary Tract Disease: Opioids may cause spasms of the sphincter of Oddi and should be used with caution in patients with biliary tract disease including pancreatitis.
precautions:
  PRECAUTIONS General: This combination product should be used with caution in elderly or debilitated patients or those with any of the following conditions: adrenocortical insufficiency (e.g., Addison's disease); asthma; central nervous system depression or coma; chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; decreased respiratory reserve (including emphysema, severe obesity, cor pulmonale, or kyphoscoliosis); delirium tremens; diabetes; head injury; hypotension; hypertension; increased intracranial pressure; myxedema or hypothyroidism; prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture; and toxic psychosis. The benefits and risks of opioids in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors and in those with a history of drug abuse should be carefully considered. This combination product may aggravate convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders, and like all opioids, may induce or aggravate seizures in some clinical settings.
description:
  POLY HIST DHC Liquid CIII NDC 50991-521-16 Rx Only DESCRIPTION: Each 5 mL (one teaspoonful) for oral administration contains: Dihydrocodeine Bitartrate*.......................... 7.5 mg ( *WARNING - May be habit forming) Phenylephrine HCl.................................... 5 mg Pyrilamine Maleate................................... 7.5 mg POLY HIST DHC Liquid also contains: Citric Acid, Glycerin, Fruit Gum Flavor, Propylene Glycol, Sorbitol, Purified Water, Sodium Citrate, Sodium Saccharin. Dihydrocodeine Bitartrate is an antitussive with the chemical name (Morphinan-6-ol,4,5-epoxy-3-methoxy-17-methyl-, (5α, 6α)-2,3-dihydroxybutanedioate (1:1) (salt) 4,5α-Epoxy-3-methoxy-17-methylmorphinan-6α-ol (+)-tartrate (salt). It has the following structural formula: Phenylephrine hydrochloride is an orally effective nasal decongestant. Chemically it is Benzenemethanol, 3-hydroxy-α-[(methylamino)methyl]-,hydrochloride (R)-, (-)- m -Hydroxy-α- [(methylamino)methyl]benzyl alcohol hydrochloride. Its chemical structure is as follows: Pyrilamine Maleate is an antihistamine having the chemical name 1,2-Ethanediamine, N-[(4-methoxyphenyl)methyl]-N', N'-dimethyl-N-2-pyridinyl-, (Z)-2-butenedioate (1:1) 2-[[2-Dimethylamino)ethyl]( p -methoxybenzyl)amino] pyridine maleate (1:1); Its structural formula is as follows: Dihydrocodeine Bitartrate Chemical Structure Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Chemical Structure Pyrilamine Maleate Chemical Structure
labor_and_delivery:
  Labor and Delivery: POLY HIST DHC Liquid is not recommended for use by women during and immediately before labor and delivery because oral opioids may cause respiratory depression in the newborn.
storage_and_handling:
  Storage: Store at 20 o -25 o C (68 o -77 o F); excursions permitted to 15 o -30 o C (59 o -86 o F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature.] Protect from freezing. Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container as defined in the USP/NF with a child-resistant closure. This bottle not to be dispensed to consumer. Rx only Manufactured by: Great Southern Laboratories Houston, TX 77099 Distributed for: Poly Pharmaceuticals Mobile, AL 36619 Rev. 09/09
indications_and_usage:
  INDICATIONS AND USAGE POLY HIST DHC Liquid is indicated to control cough and provide for temporary relief from congestion associated with the upper respiratory tract.
set_id:
  de18547a-51f6-4b97-87b4-c4c670d8da72
id:
  317b724e-bdd1-4efe-bf44-39fe7f9ae9c0
pediatric_use:
  Pediatric Use: This product is not recommended for use in children under 6 years of age. Children under two years may be more susceptible to the respiratory arrest, coma and death. Use of antihistamines is not recommended in infants. This age group may be at a higher risk than other age groups because of an increased susceptibility to anticholinergic effects, such as CNS excitation, and an increased tendency toward convulsions. In older children taking antihistamines, a paradoxical reaction characterized by hyperexcitability may occur. Very young children may be more sensitive to the effects, especially the vasopressor effects of sympathomimetic amines.
contraindications:
  CONTRAINDICATIONS This combination product is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to dihydrocodeine, codeine, or any of the active and inactive components listed above, or in any situation where opioids are contraindicated including significant respiratory depression (in unmonitored settings or in the absence of resuscitation equipment), acute or severe bronchial asthma or hypercapnia, and paralytic ileus. Antihistamines and sympathomimetics are contraindicated in patients receiving antihypertensive or antidepressant drugs containing monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. Antihistamines should not be used to treat lower respiratory tract symptoms or be given to premature or newborn infants. Sympathomimetic agents are contraindicated in patients with severe hypertension, severe coronary artery disease, patients with narrow angle glaucoma, bronchial asthma, urinary retention, peptic ulcer, and during an asthma attack. This product is contraindicated in women who are pregnant.
drug_abuse_and_dependence:
  DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE This combination product is subject to the provisions of the Controlled Substance Act and has been placed in Schedule III. Dihydrocodeine can produce drug dependence of the codeine type and therefore has the potential of being abused. Psychological dependence, physical dependence, and tolerance may develop upon repeated administration of dihydrocodeine, and it should be prescribed and administered with the same degree of caution appropriate to the use of other oral opioid medications. Symptoms of dihydrocodeine withdrawal consist of irritability, restlessness, insomnia, diaphoresis, anxiety and palpitations.
warnings:
  WARNINGS General: Considerable caution should be exercised in patients with hypertension, diabetes mellitus, ischemic heart disease, hyperthyroidism, increased intraocular pressure and prostatic hypertrophy. The elderly (60 years and older) are more likely to exhibit adverse reactions. Antihistamines may cause excitability, especially in children. At dosages higher than the recommended dose, nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness may occur. Usage in Ambulatory Patients: Dihydrocodeine may impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery. Respiratory Depression: Respiratory depression is the most dangerous acute reaction produced by opioid agonist preparations, although it is rarely severe with usual doses. Opioids decrease the respiratory rate, tidal volume, minute ventilation, and sensitivity to carbon dioxide. Respiratory depression occurs most frequently in elderly more debilitated patients, usually after large initial doses in non-tolerant patients, or when opioids are given in conjunction with other agents that depress respiration. This combination product should be used with caution in patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale and in patients with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia hypercapnia, or respiratory depression. Hypotensive Effect: Dihydrocodeine, like all opioid analgesics, may cause hypotension in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has been compromised by a depleted blood volume or who receive concurrent therapy with drugs such as phenothiazines or other agents which compromise vasomotor tone. POLY HIST DHC Liquid may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients. This combination product should be administered with caution to patients in circulatory shock, since vasodilation produced by the drug may further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Dependence: Dihydrocodeine can produce drug dependence of the codeine type and has the potential of being abused. This product should be prescribed and administered with the appropriate degree of caution. (See Drug Abuse and Dependence section).
pregnancy:
  Pregnancy: Teratogenic Effects - Pregnancy Category C: Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with POLY HIST DHC Liquid. It is also not known whether this combination product can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women or can affect reproduction capacity in males and females. This combination product should be given to pregnant women only if clearly needed, especially during the first trimester.
spl_product_data_elements:
  POLY HIST DHC Dihydrocodeine Bitartrate, Phenylephrine Hydrochloride, Pyrilamine Maleate DIHYDROCODEINE BITARTRATE DIHYDROCODEINE PHENYLEPHRINE HYDROCHLORIDE PHENYLEPHRINE PYRILAMINE MALEATE PYRILAMINE
openfda:
version:
  4
dosage_and_administration:
  DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION* Adults and Children 12 years of age and older: 1 teaspoonful every 4 to 6 hours. Not to exceed 6 teaspoonfuls in a 24 hour period. Children 6 to 12 years of age: 1/2 teaspoonful every 4 to 6 hours. Not to exceed 3 teaspoonfuls in a 24 hour period. Not recommended for children under 6 years of age. *In mild cases or in particularly sensitive patients, less frequent or reduced doses may be appropriate and adequate.
adverse_reactions:
  ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently observed adverse reactions with dihydrocodeine include light-headedness, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, fatigue, sedation, sweating, nausea, vomiting, constipation, pruritis, and skin reactions. With the exception of constipation, tolerance develops to most of these effects. Other reactions that have been observed with dihydrocodeine or other opioids include respiratory depression, orthostatic hypotension, cough suppression, confusion, diarrhea, miosis, abdominal pain, dry mouth, indigestion, anorexia, spasm of biliary tract, and urinary retention. Physical and psychological dependence are possibilities. Hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylactoid reactions), hallucinations, vivid dreams, granulomatous interstitial nephritis, severe narcosis and acute renal failure have been reported rarely during dihydrocodeine administration. Other adverse reactions observed with the ingredients in POLY HIST DHC Liquid include, lassitude, nausea, giddiness, dryness of mouth, blurred vision, cardiac palpitations, flushing, increased irritability or excitement (especially in children).
how_supplied:
  HOW SUPPLIED POLY HIST DHC is supplied as an alcohol free, gluten free, sugar free, fruit gum flavor, clear colored liquid supplied in 16 oz. bottles (NDC 50991-521-16) and 15 mL professional sample (NDC 50991-521-15). KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. IN CASE OF ACCIDENTAL OVERDOSE, SEEK PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE OR CONTACT A POISON CONTROL CENTER IMMEDIATELY. Tamper evident by foil seal under cap. Do not use if foil seal is broken or missing.
information_for_patients:
  Information for Patient/Caregivers: Patients receiving POLY HIST DHC Liquid should be given the following information: 1. Patients should be advised that POLY HIST DHC Liquid may impair the mental or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery. 2. Patients should be advised to report adverse experiences occurring during therapy. 3. Patients should be advised not to adjust the dose of POLY HIST DHC Liquid without consulting the prescribing professional. 4. Patients should not combine POLY HIST DHC Liquid with alcohol or other central nervous system stimulants. 5. Women of childbearing potential who become, or are planning to become pregnant should be advised to consult their physician regarding the effects of opioids and other drug use during pregnancy on themselves and their unborn child. Patients should be advised that POLY HIST DHC Liquid is a potential drug of abuse. They should protect if from theft, and it should never be given to anyone other than the individual for whom it was prescribed.
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PRODUCT PACKAGING: The packaging below represents the labeling currently used: Principal Display Panel and Side Panel for 473mL Label: NDC 50991-521-16 POLY HIST DHC Antitussive / Decongestant / Antihistamine Each 5 mL (1 teaspoonful) contains: Dihydrocodeine Bitartrate*....... 7.5 mg *(WARNING: May be habit forming) Phenylephrine HCl.................... 5 mg Pyrilamine Maleate................. 7.5 mg Fruit Gum Flavor Alcohol Free / Gluten Free Sugar Free / Dye Free CIII Rx Only Distributed by: Poly Pharmaceuticals Mobile, AL 36619 16 fl oz. (473 mL) Side Panel: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION*: Adults and Children 12 years of age and older: 1 teaspoonful every 4 to 6 hours. Not to exceed 6 teaspoonfuls in a 24 hour period. Children 6 to 12 years of age: 1/2 teaspoonful every 4 to 6 hours. Not to exceed 3 teaspoonfuls in a 24 hour period. Not recommended for children under 6 years of age. *In mild cases or in particularly sensitive patients, less frequent or reduced doses may be appropriate and adequate. Refer to the attached package insert for full prescribing information. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. IN CASE OF ACCIDENTAL OVERDOSE, SEEK PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE OR CONTACT A POISON CONTROL CENTER IMMEDIATELY. Tamper evident by foil seal under cap. Do not use if foil seal is broken or missing. This bottle is not to be dispensed to consumer. Storage: Store at 20 o -25 o C (68 o -77 o F); excursions permitted to 15 o -30 o C (59 o -86 o F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature.] Protect from freezing. Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container with a child-resistant cap. Rx Only Manufactured by: Great Southern Laboratories, Houston, TX 77099 Distributed for: Poly Pharmaceuticals, Mobile, AL 36619 Iss. 09/09 POLY HIST DHC Packaging POLY HIST DHC Packaging POLY HIST DHC Packaging
clinical_pharmacology:
  CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Dihydrocodeine is a semi-synthetic narcotic analgesic related to codeine, with multiple actions qualitatively similar to those of codeine; the most prominent of these involve the central nervous system and organs with smooth muscle components. Phenylephrine HCl is a sympathomimetic, which acts predominately on alpha-receptors and has little action on beta-receptors. It therefore functions as an oral nasal decongestant with minimal CNS stimulation. Pyrilamine Maleate is an antihistamine used in suppressing symptoms of allergic rhinitis. However, it is more prone to cause drowsiness than some other antihistamines.
nonteratogenic_effects:
  Nonteratogenic Effects: Babies born to mothers who have been taking opioids regularly prior to delivery will be physically dependent. The withdrawal signs include irritability and excessive crying, tremors, hyperactive reflexes, increased respiratory rate, increased stools, sneezing, yawning, vomiting and fever. The intensity of the syndrome does not always correlate with the duration of maternal opioid use or dose. There is no consensus on the best method of managing withdrawal. Chlorpromazine 0.7-1.0 mg/kg q6h, phenobarbital 2 mg/kg q6h, and paregoric 24 drops/kg q4h, have been used to treat withdrawal symptoms in infants. The duration of therapy is 4 to 28 days, with the dosages decreased as tolerated.
overdosage:
  OVERDOSAGE An overdose of POLY HIST DHC Liquid is a potentially lethal poly-drug overdose situation, and consultation with a regional Poison Control Center is recommended. A listing of the poison control centers can be found in standard references such as the Physician's Desk Reference®. Signs and Symptoms: Symptoms of overdosage include pinpoint pupils, respiratory depression, extreme somnolence progressing to stupor, loss of consciousness, or coma, skeletal muscle flaccidity, cold and clammy skin and other symptoms common with narcotic overdosage. Convulsions, cardiovascular collapse, and death may occur. A single case of acute rhabdomyolysis associated with an overdose of dihydrocodeine has been reported. Recommended Treatment: Immediate treatment of an overdosage of POLY HIST DHC Liquid includes support of cardiorespiratory function and measures to reduce drug absorption. Vomiting should be induced with syrup of ipecac, if the patient is alert and has adequate laryngeal reflexes. Oral activated charcoal should follow. The first dose should be accompanied by an appropriate cathartic. Gastric lavage may be necessary. Hypotension is usually hypovolemic and should be treated with fluids. Endotracheal intubation and artificial respiration may be necessary. The pure opioid antagonist naloxone or nalmefene is a specific antidote against respiratory depression that results from opioid overdose. Opioid antagonists should not be given in the absence of clinically significant respiratory or circulatory depression secondary to opioid overdose. They should be administered cautiously to persons who are known, or suspected to be, physically dependent on any opioid agonist including dihydrocodeine. In such cases, an abrupt or complete reversal of opioid effects may precipitate an acute abstinence syndrome. The prescribing information for the specific opioid antagonist should be consulted for details of their proper use.
