effective_time:
  20121116
inactive_ingredient:
  Inactive ingredients Isopropyl Alcohol, Sesame Oil, Aloe Vera Oil Extract
purpose:
  Purpose Cold and Flu Symptom Relief
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a poison control center immediately.
warnings:
  If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. For nasal use only. To be applied with swabs, do not spray into nasal passages. Ask a doctor before use if you: Have any known allergies to any of the ingredients listed. Had recent nasal surgery. Have existing bleeding problems. Intend to use product on children under 2 years old. When using this product Keep away from eyes, in case of eye contact, immediately flush with water. Stop use of this product if any irritation develops.
questions:
  Questions or comments Call us at 787.993.0655 or visit us online at www.previnc.com
spl_product_data_elements:
  PrevinC LEMON LEMON LEMON ISOPROPYL ALCOHOL SESAME OIL ALOE VERA LEAF
description:
  PrevinC moisturizes and is a powerful nasal solution that provides up to an 8 hour protective barrier. PrevinC is ideal for traveling (e.g., airplanes, busses and trains), when in confined area where air is re-circulated (e.g., offices, schools and hospitals) and when attending crowded public events. The letters 'HPUS' indicate that the component in this product is officially monographed in the Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia of the United States. Homeopathic
  PrevinC Homeopathic Nasal Solution Citrus Limon Burm Say No to Colds! Improves your natural protective barriers in the nose! For the temporary relief of cold and flu symptoms. Ideal when in: Offices Schools Day Cares Hospitals Traveling Events Non-Narcotic PrevinC improves the natural defense function of the nose, which includes filtration and moisture. Should be applied when in contact with someone with a cold, flu, or when air is recirculated. 8 Hour Solution PrevinC moisturizes and is a powerful nasal solution that provides up to an 8 hour protective barrier. PrevinC is designed for Topical USE ONLY, no warranty, either expressed or inferred is given for usage contrary to the instructions. PrevinC may be applied every 6-8 hours up to twice daily unless in the presence of a family member with symptoms of cold and flu. No more than 3 applications daily. It is preferred that you blow your nose prior to application if it is stuffy.If you need blow your nose after PrevinC has been applied, then re-apply the solution. Do not exceed 3 applications daily. Made with real lemon and aloe Homeopathic For your protection, this bottle has an imprinted seal around the neck. Do not use if tamper evident seal is missing, tampered, broken or destroyed.
openfda:
version:
  2
dosage_and_administration:
  Directions Remove cotton swab from the bag shake the bottle well for 5-7 seconds remove cap and squeeze bottle to apply 3-4 drops to saturate each side of the cotton swab place thumb and index finger at the center of swab tube and apply solution to each nostril using one cotton end per nasal opening (approx. 1/8") after placing just the swab tip in the nose saturate the complete area of each nostril in a circular motion discard swab and secure cap squeeze nostrils to ensure an even distribution of solution PrevinC may be applied every 6-8 hours up to twice daily unless in the presence of a family member with symptoms of cold and flu. No more than 3 applications daily.
spl_unclassified_section:
  Distributed By: BioHealth Technologies Inc. E Street lots 4 and 5 Angora Center, Villa Blanca Industrial Park Caguas, PR 00725 United States Made in USA
storage_and_handling:
  Other Information Store in a cool, dry place between 59 degrees F - 84 degrees F (15 degrees C - 29 degrees C) Flammable, keep away from fire
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PrevinC Homeopathic Nasal Solution Citrus Limon Burm Say No to Colds! 8 Hour Solution 0.17 fl. oz (5ml)
  OuterLabel
  InnerLabel
indications_and_usage:
  Uses For temporarily relief of cold and flu symptoms
set_id:
  6da146ed-61b0-427b-b054-659cdde4adc6
id:
  43824b60-0dbd-47c9-b1ed-8cf4dc94eff0
active_ingredient:
  Active Ingredient Citrus Limon Burm 1X HPUS
