spl_product_data_elements:
  PROSKI BENZO BENZOYL PEROXIDE METHYLPARABEN BENZOYL PEROXIDE BENZOYL PEROXIDE CARBOMER HOMOPOLYMER TYPE B (ALLYL SUCROSE CROSSLINKED) ROSE OIL POLYSORBATE 80 WATER SODIUM HYDROXIDE
active_ingredient:
  ACTIVE INGREDIENT Hydrous Benzoyl Peroxide 5% Topical Gel
purpose:
  PURPOSE Anti Acne
indications_and_usage:
  USE Anti Acne Gel, Used for all stages of common Acne
warnings:
  WARNING To be sold by retail on the prescription of a Registered Medical Practitioner only DO NOT ACCEPT IF TAGGER IS BROKEN. USE THE BUILT-IN PIN ON THE CAP TO PIERCE THE TAGGER FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY Do not use if you have very sensitive skin are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time. If irritation occurs, only use one topical acne medication at a time. avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen avoid contact with the eyes, lips, and mouth avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics, which may be bleached by this product skin irritation may occur, characterized by redness, burning, itching, peeling, or possibly swelling. Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation becomes severe Keep out of reach of children Avoid contact with eyes and mouth. Keep the tube tightly closed after use. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222)
do_not_use:
  Do not use if you have very sensitive skin are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide
when_using:
  When using this product skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time. If irritation occurs, only use one topical acne medication at a time. avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen avoid contact with the eyes, lips, and mouth avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics, which may be bleached by this product skin irritation may occur, characterized by redness, burning, itching, peeling, or possibly swelling. Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration.
stop_use:
  Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation becomes severe
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Keep out of reach of children Avoid contact with eyes and mouth. Keep the tube tightly closed after use. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222)
dosage_and_administration:
  DIRECTIONS Start treatment with PROSKI BENZO once a day. The evening is the best time or as suggested by a dermatologist. Sensitivity Test for a New User. Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first 3 days. If no discomfort occurs, follow the directions stated below. clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily because excessive drying of the skin may occur, start with one application daily, then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs, reduce application to once a day or every other day if going outside, apply sunscreen after using this product. If irritation or sensitivity develops, stop use of both products and ask a doctor.
storage_and_handling:
  OTHER INFORMATION Storage: store in a cool dry place at 20º-25ºC (68º-77ºF). Do not freeze. Protect from direct sunlight
inactive_ingredient:
  INACTIVE INGREDIENTS methylparaben, polysorbate 80, sodium hydroxide, purified water, carbomer homopolymer
questions:
  QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS? (754) 200-8994 (Mon-Fri 8 AM to 4 PM EST)
recent_major_changes:
  Recent Major Changes (§ 201.57(a)(5)) - Rev 05-01-2026 • Boxed Warning • Indications and Usage • Dosage and Administration • Contraindications • Warnings and Precautions
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  PACKAGE/LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 84289-216-20 Hydrous Benzoyl Peroxide Gel 5% Topical Gel KERATOLYTIC Net Wt. 20g (0.70oz) GO/DRUGS/571 Outer Label Image Inner Label Image Pinted Insert
set_id:
  2c75b3b9-6321-dede-e063-6394a90a5880
id:
  5259d7b2-f79c-788a-e063-6294a90a1448
effective_time:
  20260521
version:
  5
openfda:
