Drug: Remicade
OpenFDA brand names: REMICADE
Drug ID: remicade
Generic name: INFLIXIMAB
Manufacturer: Janssen Biotech, Inc.
NDC: 57894-030
Application number: BLA103772
RxCUI: 213361, 310994
Route: INTRAVENOUS
Pharmacologic class: Tumor Necrosis Factor Blocker [EPC]
Source: openFDA drug label

## Boxed warning
WARNING: SERIOUS INFECTIONS and MALIGNANCY WARNING: SERIOUS INFECTIONS and MALIGNANCY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning. Increased risk of serious infections leading to hospitalization or death, including tuberculosis (TB), bacterial sepsis, invasive fungal infections (such as histoplasmosis) and infections due to other opportunistic pathogens. ( 5.1 ) Discontinue REMICADE if a patient develops a serious infection. Perform test for latent TB; if positive, start treatment for TB prior to starting REMICADE. Monitor all patients for active TB during treatment, even if initial latent TB test is negative. ( 5.1 ) Lymphoma and other malignancies, some fatal, have been reported in children and adolescent patients treated with tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blockers, including REMICADE. ( 5.2 ) Postmarketing cases of fatal hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (HSTCL) have been reported in patients treated with TNF blockers including REMICADE. Almost all had received azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine concomitantly with a TNF blocker at or prior to diagnosis. The majority of REMICADE cases were reported in patients with Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis, most of whom were adolescent or young adult males. ( 5.2 ) SERIOUS INFECTIONS Patients treated with REMICADE are at increased risk for developing serious infections that may lead to hospitalization or death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . Most patients who developed these infections were taking concomitant immunosuppressants such as methotrexate or corticosteroids. REMICADE should be discontinued if a patient develops a serious infection or sepsis. Reported infections include: Active tuberculosis, including reactivation of latent tuberculosis. Patients with tuberculosis have frequently presented with disseminated or extrapulmonary disease. Patients should be tested for latent tuberculosis before REMICADE use and during therapy. Treatment for latent infection should be initiated prior to REMICADE use. Invasive fungal infections, including histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, candidiasis, aspergillosis, blastomycosis, and pneumocystosis. Patients with histoplasmosis or other invasive fungal infections may present with disseminated, rather than localized, disease. Antigen and antibody testing for histoplasmosis may be negative in some patients with active infection. Empiric anti-fungal therapy should be considered in patients at risk for invasive fungal infections who develop severe systemic illness. Bacterial, viral and other infections due to opportunistic pathogens, including Legionella and Listeria. The risks and benefits of treatment with REMICADE should be carefully considered prior to initiating therapy in patients with chronic or recurrent infection. Patients should be closely monitored for the development of signs and symptoms of infection during and after treatment with REMICADE, including the possible development of tuberculosis in patients who tested negative for latent tuberculosis infection prior to initiating therapy. MALIGNANCY Lymphoma and other malignancies, some fatal, have been reported in children and adolescent patients treated with TNF blockers, including REMICADE [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Postmarketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (HSTCL), a rare type of T-cell lymphoma, have been reported in patients treated with TNF blockers including REMICADE. These cases have had a very aggressive disease course and have been fatal. Almost all patients had received treatment with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine concomitantly with a TNF blocker at or prior to diagnosis. The majority of reported REMICADE cases have occurred in patients with Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis and most were in adolescent and young adult males.

## Indications and usage
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE REMICADE is a tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blocker indicated for: Crohn's Disease : reducing signs and symptoms and inducing and maintaining clinical remission in adult patients with moderately to severely active disease who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. ( 1.1 ) reducing the number of draining enterocutaneous and rectovaginal fistulas and maintaining fistula closure in adult patients with fistulizing disease. ( 1.1 ) Pediatric Crohn's Disease : reducing signs and symptoms and inducing and maintaining clinical remission in pediatric patients 6 years of age and older with moderately to severely active disease who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. ( 1.2 ) Ulcerative Colitis : reducing signs and symptoms, inducing and maintaining clinical remission and mucosal healing, and eliminating corticosteroid use in adult patients with moderately to severely active disease who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. ( 1.3 ) Pediatric Ulcerative Colitis : reducing signs and symptoms and inducing and maintaining clinical remission in pediatric patients 6 years of age and older with moderately to severely active disease who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. ( 1.4 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis in combination with methotrexate : reducing signs and symptoms, inhibiting the progression of structural damage, and improving physical function in adult patients with moderately to severely active disease. ( 1.5 ) Ankylosing Spondylitis : reducing signs and symptoms in adult patients with active disease. ( 1.6 ) Psoriatic Arthritis : reducing signs and symptoms of active arthritis, inhibiting the progression of structural damage, and improving physical function in adult patients. ( 1.7 ) Plaque Psoriasis : treatment of adult patients with chronic severe (i.e., extensive and/or disabling) plaque psoriasis who are candidates for systemic therapy and when other systemic therapies are medically less appropriate. ( 1.8 ) 1.1 Crohn's Disease REMICADE is indicated for: reducing signs and symptoms and inducing and maintaining clinical remission in adult patients with moderately to severely active Crohn's disease (CD) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. reducing the number of draining enterocutaneous and rectovaginal fistulas and maintaining fistula closure in adult patients with fistulizing CD. 1.2 Pediatric Crohn's Disease REMICADE is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms and inducing and maintaining clinical remission in pediatric patients 6 years of age and older with moderately to severely active CD who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. 1.3 Ulcerative Colitis REMICADE is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms, inducing and maintaining clinical remission and mucosal healing, and eliminating corticosteroid use in adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (UC) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. 1.4 Pediatric Ulcerative Colitis REMICADE is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms and inducing and maintaining clinical remission in pediatric patients 6 years of age and older with moderately to severely active UC who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. 1.5 Rheumatoid Arthritis REMICADE, in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms, inhibiting the progression of structural damage, and improving physical function in adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis (RA). 1.6 Ankylosing Spondylitis REMICADE is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms in adult patients with active ankylosing spondylitis (AS). 1.7 Psoriatic Arthritis REMICADE is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms of active arthritis, inhibiting the progression of structural damage, and improving physical function in adult patients with psoriatic arthritis (PsA). 1.8 Plaque Psoriasis REMICADE is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with chronic severe (i.e., extensive and/or disabling) plaque psoriasis (Ps) who are candidates for systemic therapy and when other systemic therapies are medically less appropriate. REMICADE should only be administered to patients who will be closely monitored and have regular follow-up visits with a physician [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5) ] .

## Dosage and administration
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prior to treatment, ensure appropriate personnel and medication are available to treat reactions (e.g., hypersensitivity) that occur during infusion and shortly after infusion. ( 2.11 ) REMICADE is administered by intravenous infusion for at least 2 hours with an in-line filter ( 2.11 ) Crohn's Disease : 5 mg/kg at 0, 2 and 6 weeks, then every 8 weeks. Some adult patients who initially respond to treatment may benefit from increasing the dose to 10 mg/kg every 8 weeks if they later lose their response. ( 2.1 ) Pediatric Crohn's Disease (≥ 6 years old) : 5 mg/kg at 0, 2 and 6 weeks, then every 8 weeks. ( 2.2 ) Ulcerative Colitis : 5 mg/kg at 0, 2 and 6 weeks, then every 8 weeks. ( 2.3 ) Pediatric Ulcerative Colitis (≥ 6 years old) : 5 mg/kg at 0, 2 and 6 weeks, then every 8 weeks. ( 2.4 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis : In conjunction with methotrexate, 3 mg/kg at 0, 2 and 6 weeks, then every 8 weeks. Some patients may benefit from increasing the dose up to 10 mg/kg every 8 weeks or treating as often as every 4 weeks. ( 2.5 ) Ankylosing Spondylitis : 5 mg/kg at 0, 2 and 6 weeks, then every 6 weeks. ( 2.6 ) Psoriatic Arthritis and Plaque Psoriasis : 5 mg/kg at 0, 2 and 6 weeks, then every 8 weeks. ( 2.7 , 2.8 ) 2.1 Dosage in Adult Crohn's Disease The recommended dosage of REMICADE is 5 mg/kg given as an intravenous induction regimen at 0, 2 and 6 weeks followed by a maintenance regimen of 5 mg/kg every 8 weeks thereafter for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active CD or fistulizing CD. For adult patients who respond and then lose their response, consideration may be given to treatment with 10 mg/kg every 8 weeks. Patients who do not respond by Week 14 are unlikely to respond with continued dosing and consideration should be given to discontinue REMICADE in these patients. 2.2 Dosage in Pediatric Crohn's Disease The recommended dosage of REMICADE for pediatric patients 6 years and older with moderately to severely active CD is 5 mg/kg given as an intravenous induction regimen at 0, 2 and 6 weeks followed by a maintenance regimen of 5 mg/kg every 8 weeks. 2.3 Dosage in Adult Ulcerative Colitis The recommended dosage of REMICADE is 5 mg/kg given as an intravenous induction regimen at 0, 2 and 6 weeks followed by a maintenance regimen of 5 mg/kg every 8 weeks thereafter for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active UC. 2.4 Dosage in Pediatric Ulcerative Colitis The recommended dosage of REMICADE for pediatric patients 6 years and older with moderately to severely active UC is 5 mg/kg given as an intravenous induction regimen at 0, 2 and 6 weeks followed by a maintenance regimen of 5 mg/kg every 8 weeks. 2.5 Dosage in Rheumatoid Arthritis The recommended dosage of REMICADE is 3 mg/kg given as an intravenous induction regimen at 0, 2 and 6 weeks followed by a maintenance regimen of 3 mg/kg every 8 weeks thereafter for the treatment of moderately to severely active RA. REMICADE should be given in combination with methotrexate. For patients who have an incomplete response, consideration may be given to adjusting the dosage up to 10 mg/kg every 8 weeks or treating as often as every 4 weeks bearing in mind that risk of serious infections is increased at higher doses per infusion or more frequent dosing [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . 2.6 Dosage in Ankylosing Spondylitis The recommended dosage of REMICADE is 5 mg/kg given as an intravenous induction regimen at 0, 2 and 6 weeks followed by a maintenance regimen of 5 mg/kg every 6 weeks thereafter for the treatment of active AS. 2.7 Dosage in Psoriatic Arthritis The recommended dosage of REMICADE is 5 mg/kg given as an intravenous induction regimen at 0, 2 and 6 weeks followed by a maintenance regimen of 5 mg/kg every 8 weeks thereafter for the treatment of PsA. REMICADE can be used with or without methotrexate. 2.8 Dosage in Plaque Psoriasis The recommended dosage of REMICADE in adult patients is 5 mg/kg given as an intravenous induction regimen at 0, 2 and 6 weeks followed by a maintenance regimen of 5 mg/kg every 8 weeks thereafter for the treatment of chronic severe (i.e., extensive and/or disabling) Ps. 2.9 Assessment for Latent and Active Tuberculosis Prior to initiating REMICADE and periodically during therapy, patients should be evaluated for active tuberculosis and tested for latent infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 2.10 Administration Instructions Regarding Infusion Reactions Prior to treatment, ensure appropriate personnel and medication are available to treat reactions (e.g., hypersensitivity, other reactions) that occur during infusion and shortly after infusion. Prior to infusion with REMICADE, patients may be premedicated with histamine-1 receptor antagonists, histamine-2 receptor antagonists, acetaminophen, and/or corticosteroids [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . For mild to moderate reactions during the infusion, consider slowing or stopping the infusion. Upon resolution of these reactions, may reinitiate at a lower infusion rate and/or with histamine-1 receptor antagonists, histamine-2 receptor antagonists, acetaminophen, and/or corticosteroids. Discontinue the infusion if the mild to moderate reactions reoccur. Discontinue the infusion if severe hypersensitivity reactions occur during the infusion. 2.11 Reconstitution, Dilution, and Administration Instructions REMICADE is intended for use under the guidance and supervision of a healthcare provider. The supplied lyophilized powder must be reconstituted and diluted prior to administration. The infusion solution should be prepared and administered by a trained medical professional using aseptic technique by the following procedure: Calculate the dose, total volume of reconstituted REMICADE solution required and the number of REMICADE vials needed. More than one vial may be needed for a full dose. Reconstitute each 100 mg REMICADE vial with 10 mL of Sterile Water for Injection, USP, to obtain a concentration of 10 mg/mL, using a syringe equipped with a 21-gauge or smaller needle as follows: Remove the flip-top from the vial and wipe the top with an alcohol swab. Insert the syringe needle into the vial through the center of the rubber stopper and direct the stream of Sterile Water for Injection, USP, to the glass wall of the vial. Gently swirl the solution by rotating the vial to dissolve the lyophilized powder, which has a cake-like appearance. Avoid prolonged or vigorous agitation. DO NOT SHAKE. Foaming of the solution on reconstitution is not unusual. Allow the reconstituted solution to stand for 5 minutes. Visually inspect the reconstituted solution for particulate matter and discoloration. The reconstituted solution should be colorless to light yellow and opalescent, and the solution may develop a few translucent particles as infliximab is a protein. Do not use if the lyophilized powder has not fully dissolved or if opaque particles, discoloration, or other foreign particles are present. Do not store unused reconstituted REMICADE solution. Dilute the total volume of the reconstituted REMICADE solution to 250 mL For volumes greater than 250 mL, either use a larger infusion bag (e.g. 500 mL) or multiple 250 mL infusion bags to ensure that the concentration of the infusion solution does not exceed 4 mg/mL. with sterile 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, (do not dilute with any other diluent) as follows: Withdraw a volume from the 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, 250 mL bottle or bag equal to the total volume of reconstituted REMICADE required for a dose. Slowly add the total volume of reconstituted REMICADE solution from the vial(s) to the 250 mL infusion bottle or bag. Discard any unused portion of the reconstituted REMICADE solution remaining in the vial(s). Gently invert the bag to mix the solution. The resulting infusion concentration should range between 0.4 mg/mL (minimum recommended concentration) and 4 mg/mL (maximum recommended concentration) of infliximab. The REMICADE infusion should begin within 3 hours of reconstitution and dilution. The infusion must be administered intravenously for at least 2 hours with an infusion set with an in-line, sterile, non-pyrogenic, low-protein-binding filter (pore size of 1.2 µm or less). Given that the vials do not contain antibacterial preservatives, discard any unused portion of the infusion solution (do not store for reuse). No physical biochemical compatibility studies have been conducted to evaluate the co-administration of REMICADE with other agents. REMICADE should not be infused concomitantly in the same intravenous line with other agents.

## Dosage forms and strengths
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injection: 100 mg of infliximab as a white lyophilized powder in a single-dose vial for reconstitution and dilution. For injection: 100 mg of infliximab as a lyophilized powder in a single-dose vial for reconstitution and dilution. ( 2.11 , 3 )

## Contraindications
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of REMICADE at doses >5 mg/kg is contraindicated in patients with moderate or severe heart failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . REMICADE is contraindicated in patients with a previous severe hypersensitivity reaction to infliximab or any of the inactive ingredients of REMICADE or any murine proteins [severe hypersensitivity reactions have included anaphylaxis, hypotension, and serum sickness] [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. REMICADE doses >5 mg/kg in moderate or severe heart failure. ( 4 ) Previous severe hypersensitivity reaction to infliximab or any inactive ingredients of REMICADE or to any murine proteins. ( 4 )

## Warnings and cautions
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious infections – do not give REMICADE during an active infection. If an infection develops, monitor carefully and stop REMICADE if infection becomes serious. ( 5.1 ) Invasive fungal infections – for patients who develop a systemic illness on REMICADE, consider empiric antifungal therapy for those who reside or travel to regions where mycoses are endemic ( 5.1 ) Malignancies – the incidence of malignancies, including invasive cervical cancer and lymphoma, was greater in REMICADE-treated patients than in controls. Due to the risk of HSTCL carefully assess the risk/benefit especially if the patient has Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis, is male, and is receiving azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine treatment. ( 5.2 ) Hepatitis B virus reactivation – test for HBV infection before starting REMICADE. Monitor HBV carriers during and several months after therapy. If reactivation occurs, stop REMICADE and begin anti-viral therapy. ( 5.3 ) Hepatotoxicity – severe hepatic reactions, some fatal or necessitating liver transplantation. Stop REMICADE in cases of jaundice and/or marked liver enzyme elevations. ( 5.4 ) Heart failure – new onset or worsening symptoms may occur. ( 4 , 5.5 ) Cytopenias – advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if signs and symptoms develop, and consider stopping REMICADE. ( 5.6 ) Hypersensitivity – serious infusion reactions including anaphylaxis or serum sickness-like reactions may occur. ( 5.7 ) Cardiovascular and Cerebrovascular Reactions – Cerebrovascular accidents, myocardial infarctions (some fatal), and arrhythmias have been reported during and within 24 hours of initiation of REMICADE infusion. Monitor patients during REMICADE infusion and if serious reaction occurs, discontinue infusion. ( 5.8 ) Demyelinating disease – exacerbation or new onset may occur. ( 5.9 ) Lupus-like syndrome – stop REMICADE if syndrome develops. ( 5.12 ) Vaccinations and Use of Live Vaccines/Therapeutic Infectious Agents – Prior to initiating REMICADE bring pediatric and adult patients up to date with all vaccinations. Live vaccines or therapeutic infectious agents should not be given with REMICADE. At least a six month waiting period following birth is recommended before the administration of live vaccines to infants exposed in utero to infliximab ( 5.13 ). 5.1 Serious Infections Patients treated with REMICADE are at increased risk for developing serious infections involving various organ systems and sites that may lead to hospitalization or death. Opportunistic infections due to bacterial, mycobacterial, invasive fungal, viral, or parasitic organisms including aspergillosis, blastomycosis, candidiasis, coccidioidomycosis, cryptococcosis, histoplasmosis, legionellosis, listeriosis, pneumocystosis, salmonellosis and tuberculosis have been reported with TNF blockers. Patients have frequently presented with disseminated rather than localized disease. Treatment with REMICADE should not be initiated in patients with an active infection, including clinically important localized infections. Patients greater than 65 years of age, patients with co-morbid conditions and/or patients taking concomitant immunosuppressants such as corticosteroids or methotrexate may be at greater risk of infection. The risks and benefits of treatment should be considered prior to initiating therapy in patients: with chronic or recurrent infection; who have been exposed to tuberculosis; with a history of an opportunistic infection; who have resided or traveled in areas of endemic tuberculosis or endemic mycoses, such as histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, or blastomycosis; or with underlying conditions that may predispose them to infection. Tuberculosis Cases of reactivation of tuberculosis or new tuberculosis infections have been observed in patients receiving REMICADE, including patients who have previously received treatment for latent or active tuberculosis. Cases of active tuberculosis have also occurred in patients being treated with REMICADE during treatment for latent tuberculosis. Patients should be evaluated for tuberculosis risk factors and tested for latent infection prior to initiating REMICADE and periodically during therapy. Treatment of latent tuberculosis infection prior to therapy with TNF blockers has been shown to reduce the risk of tuberculosis reactivation during therapy. Induration of 5 mm or greater with tuberculin skin testing should be considered a positive test result when assessing if treatment for latent tuberculosis is needed prior to initiating REMICADE, even for patients previously vaccinated with Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG). Anti-tuberculosis therapy should also be considered prior to initiation of REMICADE in patients with a past history of latent or active tuberculosis in whom an adequate course of treatment cannot be confirmed, and for patients with a negative test for latent tuberculosis but having risk factors for tuberculosis infection. Consultation with a physician with expertise in the treatment of tuberculosis is recommended to aid in the decision whether initiating anti-tuberculosis therapy is appropriate for an individual patient. Tuberculosis should be strongly considered in patients who develop a new infection during REMICADE treatment, especially in patients who have previously or recently traveled to countries with a high prevalence of tuberculosis, or who have had close contact with a person with active tuberculosis. Monitoring Patients should be closely monitored for the development of signs and symptoms of infection during and after treatment with REMICADE, including the development of tuberculosis in patients who tested negative for latent tuberculosis infection prior to initiating therapy. Tests for latent tuberculosis infection may also be falsely negative while on therapy with REMICADE. REMICADE should be discontinued if a patient develops a serious infection or sepsis. A patient who develops a new infection during treatment with REMICADE should be closely monitored, undergo a prompt and complete diagnostic workup appropriate for an immunocompromised patient, and appropriate antimicrobial therapy should be initiated. Invasive Fungal Infections For patients who reside or travel in regions where mycoses are endemic, invasive fungal infection should be suspected if they develop a serious systemic illness. Appropriate empiric antifungal therapy should be considered while a diagnostic workup is being performed. Antigen and antibody testing for histoplasmosis may be negative in some patients with active infection. When feasible, the decision to administer empiric antifungal therapy in these patients should be made in consultation with a physician with expertise in the diagnosis and treatment of invasive fungal infections and should take into account both the risk for severe fungal infection and the risks of antifungal therapy. 5.2 Malignancies Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults who received treatment with TNF blockers (initiation of therapy ≤18 years of age), including REMICADE. Approximately half of these cases were lymphomas, including Hodgkin's and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. The other cases represented a variety of malignancies, including rare malignancies that are usually associated with immunosuppression and malignancies that are not usually observed in children and adolescents. The malignancies occurred after a median of 30 months (range 1 to 84 months) after the first dose of TNF blocker therapy. Most of the patients were receiving concomitant immunosuppressants. These cases were reported post-marketing and are derived from a variety of sources, including registries and spontaneous postmarketing reports. Lymphomas In the controlled portions of clinical trials of all the TNF blockers, more cases of lymphoma have been observed among patients receiving a TNF blocker compared with control patients. In the controlled and open-label portions of REMICADE clinical trials, 5 patients developed lymphomas among 5707 patients treated with REMICADE (median duration of follow-up 1.0 years) vs. 0 lymphomas in 1600 control patients (median duration of follow-up 0.4 years). In RA patients, 2 lymphomas were observed for a rate of 0.08 cases per 100 patient-years of follow-up, which is approximately three-fold higher than expected in the general population. In the combined clinical trial population for RA, CD, PsA, AS, UC, and Ps, 5 lymphomas were observed for a rate of 0.10 cases per 100 patient-years of follow-up, which is approximately four-fold higher than expected in the general population. Patients with CD, RA or Ps, particularly patients with highly active disease and/or chronic exposure to immunosuppressant therapies, may be at a higher risk (up to several fold) than the general population for the development of lymphoma, even in the absence of TNF blockers. Cases of acute and chronic leukemia have been reported with postmarketing TNF blocker use in RA and other diseases. Even in the absence of TNF blocker therapy, patients with RA may be at a higher risk (approximately 2-fold) than the general population for the development of leukemia. Hepatosplenic T-cell Lymphoma (HSTCL) Postmarketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (HSTCL), a rare type of T-cell lymphoma, have been reported in patients treated with TNF blockers including REMICADE. These cases have had a very aggressive disease course and have been fatal. Almost all patients had received treatment with the immunosuppressants azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine concomitantly with a TNF blocker at or prior to diagnosis. The majority of reported REMICADE cases have occurred in patients with CD or UC and most were in adolescent and young adult males. It is uncertain whether the occurrence of HSTCL is related to TNF blockers or TNF blockers in combination with these other immunosuppressants. When treating patients, consideration of whether to use REMICADE alone or in combination with other immunosuppressants such as azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine should take into account a possibility that there is a higher risk of HSTCL with combination therapy versus an observed increased risk of immunogenicity and hypersensitivity reactions with REMICADE monotherapy from the clinical trial data [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . Skin Cancer Melanoma and Merkel cell carcinoma have been reported in patients treated with TNF blocker therapy, including REMICADE [see Adverse Reactions (6.3) ] . Periodic skin examination is recommended for all patients, particularly those with risk factors for skin cancer. Cervical Cancer A population-based retrospective cohort study using data from Swedish national health registries found a 2 to 3 fold increase in the incidence of invasive cervical cancer in women with RA treated with REMICADE compared to biologics-naïve patients or the general population, particularly those over 60 years of age. A causal relationship between REMICADE and cervical cancer cannot be excluded. Periodic screening should continue in women treated with REMICADE [see Adverse Reactions (6.3) ] . Other Malignancies In the controlled portions of clinical trials of some TNF blockers including REMICADE, more malignancies (excluding lymphoma and nonmelanoma skin cancer [NMSC]) have been observed in patients receiving those TNF blockers compared with control patients. During the controlled portions of REMICADE trials in patients with moderately to severely active RA, CD, PsA, AS, UC, and Ps, 14 patients were diagnosed with malignancies (excluding lymphoma and NMSC) among 4019 REMICADE-treated patients vs. 1 among 1597 control patients (at a rate of 0.52/100 patient-years among REMICADE-treated patients vs. a rate of 0.11/100 patient-years among control patients), with median duration of follow-up 0.5 years for REMICADE-treated patients and 0.4 years for control patients. Of these, the most co
[truncated]

## Adverse reactions
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (>10%) – infections (e.g. upper respiratory, sinusitis, and pharyngitis), infusion-related reactions, headache, and abdominal pain. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Janssen Biotech, Inc. at 1-800-526-7736 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adverse Reactions in Adults The data described herein reflect exposure to REMICADE in 4779 adult patients (1304 patients with RA, 1106 patients with CD, 202 with AS, 293 with PsA, 484 with UC, 1373 with Ps, and 17 patients with other conditions), including 2625 patients exposed beyond 30 weeks and 374 exposed beyond 1 year. [For information on adverse reactions in pediatric patients see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. One of the most-common reasons for discontinuation of treatment was infusion-related reactions (e.g., dyspnea, flushing, headache and rash). Infusion-Related Reactions Adverse Reactions During or Shortly After Infusion An infusion reaction was defined in clinical trials as any adverse event occurring during an infusion or within 1 hour after an infusion. In all the clinical studies, approximately 20% of REMICADE-treated patients experienced an infusion reaction compared with 10% of placebo-treated patients. Of REMICADE-treated patients who had an infusion reaction during the induction period, 27% experienced an infusion reaction during the maintenance period. Of patients who did not have an infusion reaction during the induction period, 9% experienced an infusion reaction during the maintenance period. Among all REMICADE infusions, 3% were accompanied by nonspecific symptoms such as fever or chills, 1% were accompanied by cardiopulmonary reactions (primarily chest pain, hypotension, hypertension or dyspnea), and <1% were accompanied by pruritus, urticaria, or the combined symptoms of pruritus/urticaria and cardiopulmonary reactions. Serious infusion reactions occurred in <1% of patients and included anaphylaxis, convulsions, erythematous rash and hypotension. Approximately 3% of patients discontinued REMICADE because of infusion reactions, and all patients recovered with treatment and/or discontinuation of the infusion. REMICADE infusions beyond the initial infusion were not associated with a higher incidence of reactions. The infusion reaction rates remained stable in Ps through 1 year in Ps Study I. In psoriasis Study II, the rates were variable over time and somewhat higher following the final infusion than after the initial infusion. Across the 3 Ps studies, the percent of total infusions resulting in infusion reactions (i.e., an adverse event occurring within 1 hour) was 7% in the 3 mg/kg group, 4% in the 5 mg/kg group, and 1% in the placebo group. Patients who became positive for antibodies to infliximab were more likely (approximately two-to three-fold) to have an infusion reaction than were those who were negative. Use of concomitant immunosuppressant agents appeared to reduce the frequency of both antibodies to infliximab and infusion reactions [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) and Drug Interactions (7.3) ] . Infusion Reactions Following Re-administration In a clinical trial of patients with moderate to severe Ps designed to assess the efficacy of long-term maintenance therapy versus re-treatment with an induction regimen of REMICADE following disease flare, 4% (8/219) of patients in the re-treatment induction therapy arm experienced serious infusion reactions versus <1% (1/222) in the maintenance therapy arm. Patients enrolled in this trial did not receive any concomitant immunosuppressant therapy. In this study, the majority of serious infusion reactions occurred during the second infusion at Week 2. Symptoms included, but were not limited to, dyspnea, urticaria, facial edema, and hypotension. In all cases, REMICADE treatment was discontinued and/or other treatment instituted with complete resolution of signs and symptoms. Delayed Reactions/Reactions Following Re-administration In Ps studies, approximately 1% of REMICADE-treated patients experienced a possible delayed hypersensitivity reaction, generally reported as serum sickness or a combination of arthralgia and/or myalgia with fever and/or rash. These reactions generally occurred within 2 weeks after repeat infusion. Infections In REMICADE clinical studies, treated infections were reported in 36% of REMICADE-treated patients (average of 51 weeks of follow-up) and in 25% of placebo-treated patients (average of 37 weeks of follow-up). The infections most frequently reported were respiratory tract infections (including sinusitis, pharyngitis, and bronchitis) and urinary tract infections. Among REMICADE-treated patients, serious infections included pneumonia, cellulitis, abscess, skin ulceration, sepsis, and bacterial infection. In clinical trials, 7 opportunistic infections were reported; 2 cases each of coccidioidomycosis (1 case was fatal) and histoplasmosis (1 case was fatal), and 1 case each of pneumocystosis, nocardiosis and cytomegalovirus. Tuberculosis (TB) was reported in 14 patients, 4 of whom died due to miliary tuberculosis. Other cases of TB, including disseminated TB, also have been reported post-marketing. Most of these cases of TB occurred within the first 2 months after initiation of therapy with REMICADE and may reflect recrudescence of latent disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . In the 1-year placebo-controlled studies RA I and RA II, 5.3% of patients receiving REMICADE every 8 weeks with MTX developed serious infections as compared to 3.4% of placebo patients receiving MTX. Of 924 patients receiving REMICADE, 1.7% developed pneumonia and 0.4% developed TB, when compared to 0.3% and 0.0% in the placebo arm respectively. In a shorter (22-week) placebo-controlled study of 1082 RA patients randomized to receive placebo, 3 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg REMICADE infusions at 0, 2, and 6 weeks, followed by every 8 weeks with MTX, serious infections were more frequent in the 10 mg/kg REMICADE group (5.3%) than the 3 mg/kg or placebo groups (1.7% in both). During the 54-week Crohn's II Study, 15% of patients with fistulizing CD developed a new fistula-related abscess. In REMICADE clinical studies in patients with UC, infections treated with antimicrobials were reported in 27% of REMICADE-treated patients (average of 41 weeks of follow-up) and in 18% of placebo-treated patients (average 32 weeks of follow-up). The types of infections, including serious infections, reported in patients with UC were similar to those reported in other clinical studies. The onset of serious infections may be preceded by constitutional symptoms such as fever, chills, weight loss, and fatigue. The majority of serious infections, however, may also be preceded by signs or symptoms localized to the site of the infection. Autoantibodies/Lupus-like Syndrome Approximately half of REMICADE-treated patients in clinical trials who were antinuclear antibody (ANA) negative at baseline developed a positive ANA during the trial compared with approximately one-fifth of placebo-treated patients. Anti-dsDNA antibodies were newly detected in approximately one-fifth of REMICADE-treated patients compared with 0% of placebo-treated patients. Reports of lupus and lupus-like syndromes, however, remain uncommon. Malignancies In controlled trials, more REMICADE-treated patients developed malignancies than placebo-treated patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . In a randomized controlled clinical trial exploring the use of REMICADE in patients with moderate to severe COPD who were either current smokers or ex-smokers, 157 patients were treated with REMICADE at doses similar to those used in RA and CD. Of these REMICADE-treated patients, 9 developed a malignancy, including 1 lymphoma, for a rate of 7.67 cases per 100 patient-years of follow-up (median duration of follow-up 0.8 years; 95% CI 3.51 – 14.56). There was 1 reported malignancy among 77 control patients for a rate of 1.63 cases per 100 patient-years of follow-up (median duration of follow-up 0.8 years; 95% CI 0.04 – 9.10). The majority of the malignancies developed in the lung or head and neck [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Adverse Reactions in Patients with NYHA Class III/IV Heart Failure In a randomized, double-blind study evaluating REMICADE in moderate or severe heart failure (NYHA Class III/IV; left ventricular ejection fraction ≤35%), 150 patients were randomized to receive treatment with 3 infusions of REMICADE 10 mg/kg, 5 mg/kg, or placebo, at 0, 2, and 6 weeks. Higher incidences of mortality and hospitalization due to worsening heart failure were observed in patients receiving the 10 mg/kg REMICADE dose. At 1 year, 8 patients in the 10 mg/kg REMICADE group had died compared with 4 deaths each in the 5 mg/kg REMICADE and the placebo groups. There were trends toward increased dyspnea, hypotension, angina, and dizziness in both the 10 mg/kg and 5 mg/kg REMICADE treatment groups, versus placebo. REMICADE has not been studied in patients with mild heart failure (NYHA Class I/II) [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Hepatotoxicity Severe liver injury, including acute liver failure and autoimmune hepatitis, has been reported in patients receiving REMICADE [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Reactivation of hepatitis B virus has occurred in patients receiving TNF blockers, including REMICADE, who are chronic carriers of this virus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . In clinical trials in RA, CD, UC, AS, Ps, and PsA, elevations of aminotransferases were observed (ALT more common than AST) in a greater proportion of patients receiving REMICADE than in controls (Table 1), both when REMICADE was given as monotherapy and when it was used in combination with other immunosuppressive agents. In general, patients who developed ALT and AST elevations were asymptomatic, and the abnormalities decreased or resolved with either continuation or discontinuation of REMICADE, or modification of concomitant medications. Table 1: Proportion of Patients with Elevated ALT in Clinical Trials in Adults Proportion of patients with elevated ALT >1 to <3 × ULN ≥3 × ULN ≥5 × ULN Placebo REMICADE Placebo REMICADE Placebo REMICADE Rheumatoid arthritis Placebo patients received methotrexate while REMICADE patients received both REMICADE and methotrexate. Median follow-up was 58 weeks. 24% 34% 3% 4% <1% <1% Crohn's disease Placebo patients in the 2 Phase 3 trials in CD received an initial dose of 5 mg/kg REMICADE at study start and were on placebo in the maintenance phase. Patients who were randomized to the placebo maintenance group and then later crossed over to REMICADE are included in the REMICADE group in ALT analysis. Median follow-up was 54 weeks. 34% 39% 4% 5% 0% 2% Ulcerative colitis Median follow-up was 30 weeks. Specifically, the median duration of follow-up was 30 weeks for placebo and 31 weeks for REMICADE. 12% 17% 1% 2% <1% <1% Ankylosing spondylitis Median follow-up was 24 weeks for the placebo group and 102 weeks for the REMICADE group. 15% 51% 0% 10% 0% 4% Psoriatic arthritis Median follow-up was 39 weeks for the REMICADE group and 18 weeks for the placebo group. 16% 50% 0% 7% 0% 2% Plaque psoriasis ALT values are obtained in 2 Phase 3 Ps studies with median follow-up of 50 weeks for REMICADE and 16 weeks for placebo. 24% 49% <1% 8% 0% 3% Adverse Reactions in Psoriasis Studies During the placebo-controlled portion across the 3 clinical trials up to Week 16, the proportion of patients who experienced at least 1 serious adverse reaction (SAE; defined as resulting in death, life threatening, requires hospitalization, or persistent or sign
[truncated]

## Drug interactions
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Other Biological Products – increased risk of serious infections. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Other Biological Products The combination of REMICADE with other biological products used to treat the same conditions as REMICADE is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] . An increased risk of serious infections was seen in clinical studies of other TNF blockers used in combination with anakinra or abatacept, with no added clinical benefit. Because of the nature of the adverse reactions seen with these combinations with TNF blocker therapy, similar toxicities may also result from the combination of anakinra or abatacept with other TNF blockers. Therefore, the combination of REMICADE and anakinra or abatacept is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] . The concomitant use of tocilizumab with biological DMARDs such as TNF antagonists, including REMICADE, should be avoided because of the possibility of increased immunosuppression and increased risk of infection. 7.2 Methotrexate and Other Concomitant Medications Specific drug interaction studies, including interactions with methotrexate (MTX), have not been conducted. The majority of patients in RA or CD clinical studies received one or more concomitant medications. In RA, concomitant medications besides MTX were nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs), folic acid, corticosteroids and/or narcotics. Concomitant CD medications were antibiotics, antivirals, corticosteroids, 6-MP/AZA and aminosalicylates. In PsA clinical trials, concomitant medications included MTX in approximately half of the patients as well as NSAIDs, folic acid and corticosteroids. Concomitant MTX use may decrease the incidence of anti-infliximab antibody production and increase infliximab concentrations. 7.3 Immunosuppressants Patients with CD who received immunosuppressants tended to experience fewer infusion reactions compared to patients on no immunosuppressants [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . Serum infliximab concentrations appeared to be unaffected by baseline use of medications for the treatment of CD including corticosteroids, antibiotics (metronidazole or ciprofloxacin) and aminosalicylates. 7.4 Cytochrome P450 Substrates The formation of CYP450 enzymes may be suppressed by increased levels of cytokines (e.g., TNFα, IL-1, IL-6, IL-10, IFN) during chronic inflammation. Therefore, it is expected that for a molecule that antagonizes cytokine activity, such as infliximab, the formation of CYP450 enzymes could be normalized. Upon initiation or discontinuation of REMICADE in patients being treated with CYP450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index, monitoring of the effect (e.g., warfarin) or drug concentration (e.g., cyclosporine or theophylline) is recommended and the individual dose of the drug product may be adjusted as needed. 7.5 Live Vaccines/Therapeutic Infectious Agents It is recommended that live vaccines not be given concurrently with REMICADE. It is also recommended that live vaccines not be given to infants after in utero exposure to infliximab for at least 6 months following birth [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] . It is recommended that therapeutic infectious agents not be given concurrently with REMICADE [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] .

## Use in specific populations
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available observational studies in pregnant women exposed to REMICADE showed no increased risk of major malformations among live births as compared to those exposed to non-biologics. However, findings on other birth and maternal outcomes were not consistent across studies of different study design and conduct (see Data ) . Monoclonal antibodies such as infliximab are transferred across the placenta during the third trimester of pregnancy and may affect immune response in the in utero exposed infant (see Clinical Considerations ) . Because infliximab does not cross-react with TNFα in species other than humans and chimpanzees, animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with REMICADE. In a developmental study conducted in mice using an analogous antibody, no evidence of maternal toxicity or fetal harm was observed (see Data ) . All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risks of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2–4% and 15–20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Disease-Associated Maternal and/or Embryo/Fetal Risk Published data suggest that there is an increased risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes in women with inflammatory bowel disease or rheumatoid arthritis associated with increased disease activity. Adverse pregnancy outcomes include preterm delivery (before 37 weeks of gestation), low birth weight (less than 2.5 kg) and small for gestational age at birth. Fetal/Neonatal Adverse Reactions As with other IgG antibodies, infliximab crosses the placenta. Infliximab has been detected in the serum of infants up to 6 months following birth. Consequently, these infants may be at increased risk of infection, including disseminated infection which can become fatal. At least a six month waiting period following birth is recommended before the administration of live vaccines (e.g., BCG vaccine or other live vaccines, such as the rotavirus vaccine) to these infants [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] . Cases of agranulocytosis in infants exposed in utero have also been reported [see Adverse Reactions (6.3) ] . Data Human Data Two prospective cohort studies were conducted assessing birth outcomes as well as the health status of infants up to the age of one year in women exposed to REMICADE compared to non-biologic comparators including methotrexate, azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine and systemic corticosteroids used for the treatment of similar diseases. The first study was conducted in an IBD pregnancy registry in the United States and assessed pregnancy outcomes in 294 women with inflammatory bowel disease exposed to REMICADE during pregnancy compared with 515 women on a non-biologic treatment. REMICADE exposure was not associated with increased rates of major congenital malformations, miscarriage/stillbirth, infants of low birth weight, small for gestational age, or infection in the first year of life. The second study among IBD and non-IBD patients in Sweden, Finland, and Denmark compared 97, 7, and 166 women exposed to REMICADE to 2,693, 2,499 and 1,268 women on non-biologic systemic therapy, respectively. In this study, comparing pooled data across the three countries, exposure to REMICADE was not associated with increased rates of congenital anomalies or infant death. REMICADE in combination with immunosuppressants (mainly systemic corticosteroids and azathioprine) was associated with increased rates of preterm birth, small for gestational age, low birth weight, and infant hospitalization for infection compared with non-biologic systemic treatment. Although the study did not show any associations with REMICADE monotherapy, the analyses could have been underpowered to detect an association. There were additional methodological limitations with these studies that may account for the study findings in both studies: the concomitant use of other medications or treatments was not controlled and disease severity was not assessed; in the U.S. study, patient reported outcomes were collected without clinical validation. These methodological limitations hinder interpretation of the study results. Animal Data Because infliximab products do not cross-react with TNFα in species other than humans and chimpanzees, animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with infliximab. An embryofetal development study was conducted in pregnant mice using cV1q anti-mouse TNFα, an analogous antibody that selectively inhibits the functional activity of mouse TNFα. This antibody administered in mice, during the period of organogenesis on gestation days (GDs) 6 and 12, at IV doses up to 40 mg/kg produced no evidence of maternal toxicity, fetal mortality, or structural abnormalities. Doses of 10 to 15 mg/kg in pharmacodynamic animal models with the anti-TNF analogous antibody produced maximal pharmacologic effectiveness. Analyses of fetal samples on GD 14 indicated placental transfer of the antibody and exposure of the fetuses during organogenesis. In a peri- and post-natal development study in mice, no maternal toxicity or adverse developmental effects in offspring were observed when dams were administered IV doses of 10 or 40 mg/kg of the analogous antibody on GDs 6, 12 and 18 and lactation days 3, 9 and 15. 8.2 Lactation Risk Summary Published literature show that infliximab is present at low levels in human milk. Systemic exposure in a breastfed infant is expected to be low because infliximab is largely degraded in the gastrointestinal tract. A U.S. multi-center study of 168 women treated with infliximab for inflammatory bowel disease (breast milk samples obtained, n=29) showed that infants exposed to infliximab through breast milk had no increase in rates of infections and developed normally. There are no data on the effects of infliximab on milk production. The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother's clinical need for REMICADE and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from REMICADE or from the underlying maternal condition. 8.4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of REMICADE have been established in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years of age for induction and maintenance treatment of CD and UC [ see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.4) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . However, the safety and effectiveness of REMICADE in pediatric patients <6 years of age with CD or UC have not been established. The safety and effectiveness of REMICADE in the treatment of pediatric patients with Ps and juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA) have not been established. Pediatric Crohn's Disease The safety and effectiveness of REMICADE have been established for reducing signs and symptoms and inducing and maintaining clinical remission in pediatric patients 6 years of age and older with moderately to severely active CD who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. The use of REMICADE for this indication is supported by evidence from a randomized, open-label pediatric CD study in 112 pediatric patients aged 6 years and older [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. REMICADE has been studied only in combination with conventional immunosuppressive therapy in pediatric CD. The longer term (greater than 1 year) safety and effectiveness of REMICADE in pediatric CD patients have not been established in clinical trials. Postmarketing cases of HSTCL have been reported in pediatric patients treated with TNF blockers including REMICADE. Due to the risk of HSTCL, a careful risk-benefit assessment should be made when REMICADE is used in combination with other immunosuppressants in pediatric CD patients [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Pediatric Ulcerative Colitis The safety and effectiveness of REMICADE for reducing signs and symptoms and inducing and maintaining clinical remission in pediatric patients aged 6 years and older with moderately to severely active UC who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy have been established. The use of REMICADE for this indication is supported by evidence from adequate and well-controlled studies of REMICADE in adults with additional safety and pharmacokinetic data from an open-label pediatric UC study in 60 pediatric patients aged 6 years and older [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Adverse Reactions (6.1) , and Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . The effectiveness of REMICADE in inducing and maintaining mucosal healing in pediatric UC was not established. Although 41 patients had a Mayo endoscopy subscore of 0 or 1 at the Week 8 endoscopy, the induction phase was open-label and lacked a control group. Only 9 patients had an optional endoscopy at Week 54. Approximately half of the patients were on concomitant immunomodulators (AZA, 6-MP, MTX) at study start. Due to the risk of HSTCL, a careful risk-benefit assessment should be made when REMICADE is used in combination with other immunosuppressants in pediatric UC patients [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . The longer term (greater than 1 year) safety and effectiveness of REMICADE in pediatric UC patients have not been established in clinical trials. Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) The safety and effectiveness of REMICADE in the treatment of pediatric patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA) have not been established. The safety and efficacy of REMICADE in patients with JRA were evaluated in a multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study for 14 weeks, followed by a double-blind, all-active treatment extension, for a maximum of 44 weeks. Patients with active JRA between the ages of 4 and 17 years who had been treated with MTX for at least 3 months were enrolled. Concurrent use of folic acid, oral corticosteroids (≤0.2 mg/kg/day of prednisone or equivalent), NSAIDs, and/or disease modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) was permitted. Doses of 3 mg/kg REMICADE or placebo were administered intravenously at Weeks 0, 2 and 6. Patients randomized to placebo crossed-over to receive 6 mg/kg REMICADE at Weeks 14, 16, and 20, and then every 8 weeks through Week 44. Patients who completed the study continued to receive open-label treatment with REMICADE for up to 2 years in a companion extension study. The study failed to establish the efficacy of REMICADE in the treatment of JRA. Key observations in the study included a high placebo response rate and a higher rate of immunogenicity than what has been observed in adults. Additionally, a higher rate of clearance of infliximab was observed than had been observed in adults. Population pharmacokinetic analysis showed that in pediatric patients with JRA with a body weight of up to 35 kg receiving 6 mg/kg REMICADE and pediatric patients with JRA with body weight greater than 35 kg up to adult body weight receiving 3 mg/kg REMICADE, the steady state area under the concentration curve (AUC ss ) was similar to that observed in adults receiving 3 mg/kg of REMICADE. A total of 60 patients with JRA were treated with doses of 3 mg/kg and 57 patients were treated with doses of 6 mg/kg. The proportion of patients with infusion reactions who received 3 mg/kg REMICADE was 35% (21/60) over 52 weeks compared with 18% (10/57) in patients who received 6 mg/kg over 38 weeks. The most common infusion reactions reported were vomiting, fever, headache, and hypotension. In the 3 mg/kg REMICADE group, 4 patients had a serious infusion reaction and 3 patients reported a possible anaphylactic reaction (2 of which were among the serious infusion reactions). In the 6 mg/kg REMICADE group, 2 patients had a serious infusion reaction, 1 of whom had a possible anaphylactic reaction. Two of the 6 patients who experienced serious infusion reactions rece
[truncated]

## Overdosage
10 OVERDOSAGE Single doses up to 20 mg/kg have been administered without any direct toxic effect. In case of overdosage, it is recommended that the patient be monitored for any signs or symptoms of adverse reactions or effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ] and appropriate symptomatic treatment instituted immediately.

## Description
11 DESCRIPTION Infliximab, a tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blocker, is a chimeric IgG1κ monoclonal antibody (composed of human constant and murine variable regions). It has a molecular weight of approximately 149.1 kilodaltons. Infliximab is produced by a recombinant murine myeloma cell line, SP2/0. REMICADE ® (infliximab) for injection is supplied as a sterile, preservative-free, white, lyophilized powder for intravenous infusion after reconstitution and dilution. Following reconstitution with 10 mL of Sterile Water for Injection, USP, the final concentration is 10 mg/mL and the resulting pH is approximately 7.2. Each single-dose vial contains 100 mg infliximab, dibasic sodium phosphate, dihydrate (6.1 mg), monobasic sodium phosphate, monohydrate (2.2 mg), polysorbate 80 (0.5 mg), and sucrose (500 mg).

## Clinical pharmacology
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Infliximab neutralizes the biological activity of TNFα by binding with high affinity to the soluble and transmembrane forms of TNFα and inhibits binding of TNFα with its receptors. Infliximab does not neutralize TNFβ (lymphotoxin-α), a related cytokine that utilizes the same receptors as TNFα. Biological activities attributed to TNFα include: induction of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukins (IL) 1 and 6, enhancement of leukocyte migration by increasing endothelial layer permeability and expression of adhesion molecules by endothelial cells and leukocytes, activation of neutrophil and eosinophil functional activity, induction of acute phase reactants and other liver proteins, as well as tissue degrading enzymes produced by synoviocytes and/or chondrocytes. Cells expressing transmembrane TNFα bound by infliximab can be lysed in vitro or in vivo . Infliximab inhibits the functional activity of TNFα in a wide variety of in vitro bioassays utilizing human fibroblasts, endothelial cells, neutrophils, B and T-lymphocytes and epithelial cells. The relationship of these biological response markers to the mechanism(s) by which REMICADE exerts its clinical effects is unknown. Anti-TNFα antibodies reduce disease activity in the cotton-top tamarin colitis model, and decrease synovitis and joint erosions in a murine model of collagen-induced arthritis. Infliximab prevents disease in transgenic mice that develop polyarthritis as a result of constitutive expression of human TNFα, and when administered after disease onset, allows eroded joints to heal. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Elevated concentrations of TNFα have been found in involved tissues and fluids of patients with RA, CD, UC, AS, PsA, and Ps. In RA, treatment with REMICADE reduced infiltration of inflammatory cells into inflamed areas of the joint as well as expression of molecules mediating cellular adhesion [E-selectin, intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1)], chemoattraction [IL-8 and monocyte chemotactic protein (MCP-1)] and tissue degradation [matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) 1 and 3]. In CD, treatment with REMICADE reduced infiltration of inflammatory cells and TNFα production in inflamed areas of the intestine, and reduced the proportion of mononuclear cells from the lamina propria able to express TNFα and interferon. After treatment with REMICADE, patients with RA or CD exhibited decreased levels of serum IL-6 and C-reactive protein (CRP) compared to baseline. Peripheral blood lymphocytes from REMICADE-treated patients showed no significant decrease in number or in proliferative responses to in vitro mitogenic stimulation when compared to cells from untreated patients. In PsA, treatment with REMICADE resulted in a reduction in the number of T-cells and blood vessels in the synovium and psoriatic skin lesions as well as a reduction of macrophages in the synovium. In Ps, REMICADE treatment may reduce the epidermal thickness and infiltration of inflammatory cells. The relationship between these pharmacodynamic activities and the mechanism(s) by which REMICADE exerts its clinical effects is unknown. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics In adults, single intravenous (IV) infusions of 3 mg/kg to 20 mg/kg (two times the maximum recommended dose for any indication) showed a linear relationship between the dose administered and the maximum serum concentration. The volume of distribution at steady state was independent of dose and indicated that infliximab was distributed primarily within the vascular compartment. Pharmacokinetic results for single doses of 3 mg/kg to 10 mg/kg in RA, 5 mg/kg in CD, and 3 mg/kg to 5 mg/kg in Ps indicate that the median terminal half-life of infliximab is 7.7 to 9.5 days. Following an initial dose of REMICADE, repeated infusions at 2 and 6 weeks resulted in predictable concentration-time profiles following each treatment. No systemic accumulation of infliximab occurred upon continued repeated treatment with 3 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg at 4- or 8-week intervals. Development of antibodies to infliximab increased infliximab clearance. At 8 weeks after a maintenance dose of 3 to 10 mg/kg of REMICADE, median infliximab serum concentrations ranged from approximately 0.5 to 6 mcg/mL; however, infliximab concentrations were not detectable (<0.1 mcg/mL) in patients who became positive for antibodies to infliximab. No major differences in clearance or volume of distribution were observed in patient subgroups defined by age, weight, or gender. It is not known if there are differences in clearance or volume of distribution in patients with marked impairment of hepatic or renal function. Infliximab pharmacokinetic characteristics (including peak and trough concentrations and terminal half-life) were similar in pediatric (aged 6 to 17 years) and adult patients with CD or UC following the administration of 5 mg/kg of REMICADE.

## Mechanism of action
12.1 Mechanism of Action Infliximab neutralizes the biological activity of TNFα by binding with high affinity to the soluble and transmembrane forms of TNFα and inhibits binding of TNFα with its receptors. Infliximab does not neutralize TNFβ (lymphotoxin-α), a related cytokine that utilizes the same receptors as TNFα. Biological activities attributed to TNFα include: induction of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukins (IL) 1 and 6, enhancement of leukocyte migration by increasing endothelial layer permeability and expression of adhesion molecules by endothelial cells and leukocytes, activation of neutrophil and eosinophil functional activity, induction of acute phase reactants and other liver proteins, as well as tissue degrading enzymes produced by synoviocytes and/or chondrocytes. Cells expressing transmembrane TNFα bound by infliximab can be lysed in vitro or in vivo . Infliximab inhibits the functional activity of TNFα in a wide variety of in vitro bioassays utilizing human fibroblasts, endothelial cells, neutrophils, B and T-lymphocytes and epithelial cells. The relationship of these biological response markers to the mechanism(s) by which REMICADE exerts its clinical effects is unknown. Anti-TNFα antibodies reduce disease activity in the cotton-top tamarin colitis model, and decrease synovitis and joint erosions in a murine model of collagen-induced arthritis. Infliximab prevents disease in transgenic mice that develop polyarthritis as a result of constitutive expression of human TNFα, and when administered after disease onset, allows eroded joints to heal.

## Clinical studies
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14.1 Adult Crohn's Disease Active Crohn's Disease in Adults The safety and efficacy of single and multiple doses of REMICADE were assessed in 2 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical studies in 653 adult patients with moderate to severely active CD [Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI) ≥220 and ≤400] with an inadequate response to prior conventional therapies. Concomitant stable doses of aminosalicylates, corticosteroids and/or immunomodulatory agents were permitted and 92% of patients continued to receive at least one of these medications. In the single-dose trial of 108 adult patients, 16% (4/25) of placebo patients achieved a clinical response (decrease in CDAI ≥70 points) at Week 4 vs. 81% (22/27) of patients receiving 5 mg/kg REMICADE (p<0.001, two-sided, Fisher's Exact test). Additionally, 4% (1/25) of placebo patients and 48% (13/27) of patients receiving 5 mg/kg REMICADE achieved clinical remission (CDAI<150) at Week 4. In a multidose trial (ACCENT I [Study Crohn's I]), 545 adult patients received 5 mg/kg at Week 0 and were then randomized to one of three treatment groups; the placebo maintenance group received placebo at Weeks 2 and 6, and then every 8 weeks; the 5 mg/kg maintenance group received 5 mg/kg at Weeks 2 and 6, and then every 8 weeks; and the 10 mg/kg maintenance group received 5 mg/kg at Weeks 2 and 6, and then 10 mg/kg every 8 weeks. Patients in response at Week 2 were randomized and analyzed separately from those not in response at Week 2. Corticosteroid taper was permitted after Week 6. At Week 2, 57% (311/545) of patients were in clinical response. At Week 30, a significantly greater proportion of these patients in the 5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg maintenance groups achieved clinical remission compared to patients in the placebo maintenance group (Table 3). Additionally, a significantly greater proportion of patients in the 5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg REMICADE maintenance groups were in clinical remission and were able to discontinue corticosteroid use compared to patients in the placebo maintenance group at Week 54 (Table 3). Table 3: Clinical Remission and Steroid Withdrawal in Adult Patients with CD (Study Crohn's I) Single 5-mg/kg Dose REMICADE at Week 0 Three-Dose Induction REMICADE 5 mg/kg administered at Weeks 0, 2 and 6 Placebo Maintenance REMICADE Maintenance q8 wks 5 mg/kg 10 mg/kg Week 30 25/102 41/104 48/105 Clinical remission 25% 39% 46% P -value P-values represent pairwise comparisons to placebo 0.022 0.001 Week 54 6/54 14/56 18/53 Patients in remission able to discontinue corticosteroid use Of those receiving corticosteroids at baseline 11% 25% 34% P -value 0.059 0.005 Patients in the REMICADE maintenance groups (5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg) had a longer time to loss of response than patients in the placebo maintenance group (Figure 1). At Weeks 30 and 54, significant improvement from baseline was seen among the 5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg REMICADE-treated groups compared to the placebo group in the disease-specific inflammatory bowel disease questionnaire (IBDQ), particularly the bowel and systemic components, and in the physical component summary score of the general health-related quality of life questionnaire SF-36. Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier Estimate of the Proportion of Adults with CD Who Had Not Lost Response Through Week 54 (Study Crohn's I) In a subset of 78 patients who had mucosal ulceration at baseline and who participated in an endoscopic substudy, 13 of 43 patients in the REMICADE maintenance group had endoscopic evidence of mucosal healing compared to 1 of 28 patients in the placebo group at Week 10. Of the REMICADE-treated patients showing mucosal healing at Week 10, 9 of 12 patients also showed mucosal healing at Week 54. Patients who achieved a response and subsequently lost response were eligible to receive REMICADE on an episodic basis at a dose that was 5 mg/kg higher than the dose to which they were randomized. The majority of such patients responded to the higher dose. Among patients who were not in response at Week 2, 59% (92/157) of REMICADE maintenance patients responded by Week 14 compared to 51% (39/77) of placebo maintenance patients. Among patients who did not respond by Week 14, additional therapy did not result in significantly more responses [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] . Figure 1 Fistulizing Crohn's Disease in Adults The safety and efficacy of REMICADE were assessed in 2 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies in adult patients with fistulizing CD with fistula(s) that were of at least 3 months duration. Concurrent use of stable doses of corticosteroids, 5-aminosalicylates, antibiotics, MTX, 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) and/or azathioprine (AZA) was permitted. In the first trial, 94 adult patients received 3 doses of either placebo or REMICADE at Weeks 0, 2 and 6. Fistula response (≥50% reduction in number of enterocutaneous fistulas draining upon gentle compression on at least 2 consecutive visits without an increase in medication or surgery for CD) was seen in 68% (21/31) of patients in the 5 mg/kg REMICADE group ( P =0.002) and 56% (18/32) of patients in the 10 mg/kg REMICADE group ( P =0.021) vs. 26% (8/31) of patients in the placebo arm. The median time to onset of response and median duration of response in REMICADE-treated patients was 2 and 12 weeks, respectively. Closure of all fistulas was achieved in 52% of REMICADE-treated patients compared with 13% of placebo-treated patients ( P <0.001). In the second trial (ACCENT II [Study Crohn's II]), adult patients who were enrolled had to have at least 1 draining enterocutaneous (perianal, abdominal) fistula. All patients received 5 mg/kg REMICADE at Weeks 0, 2 and 6. Patients were randomized to placebo or 5 mg/kg REMICADE maintenance at Week 14. Patients received maintenance doses at Week 14 and then every 8 weeks through Week 46. Patients who were in fistula response (fistula response was defined the same as in the first trial) at both Weeks 10 and 14 were randomized separately from those not in response. The primary endpoint was time from randomization to loss of response among those patients who were in fistula response. Among the randomized patients (273 of the 296 initially enrolled), 87% had perianal fistulas and 14% had abdominal fistulas. Eight percent also had rectovaginal fistulas. Greater than 90% of the patients had received previous immunosuppressive and antibiotic therapy. At Week 14, 65% (177/273) of patients were in fistula response. Patients randomized to REMICADE maintenance had a longer time to loss of fistula response compared to the placebo maintenance group (Figure 2). At Week 54, 38% (33/87) of REMICADE-treated patients had no draining fistulas compared with 22% (20/90) of placebo-treated patients ( P =0.02). Compared to placebo maintenance, patients on REMICADE maintenance had a trend toward fewer hospitalizations. Figure 2: Life Table Estimates of the Proportion of Adult CD Patients Who Had Not Lost Fistula Response Through Week 54 (Study Crohn's II) Patients who achieved a fistula response and subsequently lost response were eligible to receive REMICADE maintenance therapy at a dose that was 5 mg/kg higher than the dose to which they were randomized. Of the placebo maintenance patients, 66% (25/38) responded to 5 mg/kg REMICADE, and 57% (12/21) of REMICADE maintenance patients responded to 10 mg/kg. Patients who had not achieved a response by Week 14 were unlikely to respond to additional doses of REMICADE. Similar proportions of patients in either group developed new fistulas (17% overall) and similar numbers developed abscesses (15% overall). Figure 2 14.2 Pediatric Crohn's Disease The safety and efficacy of REMICADE were assessed in a randomized, open-label study (Study Peds Crohn's) in 112 pediatric patients aged 6 to 17 years old with moderately to severely active CD and an inadequate response to conventional therapies. The median age was 13 years and the median Pediatric Crohn's Disease Activity Index (PCDAI) was 40 (on a scale of 0 to 100). All patients were required to be on a stable dose of 6-MP, AZA, or MTX; 35% were also receiving corticosteroids at baseline. All patients received induction dosing of 5 mg/kg REMICADE at Weeks 0, 2, and 6. At Week 10, 103 patients were randomized to a maintenance regimen of 5 mg/kg REMICADE given either every 8 weeks or every 12 weeks. At Week 10, 88% of patients were in clinical response (defined as a decrease from baseline in the PCDAI score of ≥15 points and total PCDAI score of ≤30 points), and 59% were in clinical remission (defined as PCDAI score of ≤10 points). The proportion of pediatric patients achieving clinical response at Week 10 compared favorably with the proportion of adults achieving a clinical response in Study Crohn's I. The study definition of clinical response in Study Peds Crohn's was based on the PCDAI score, whereas the CDAI score was used in the adult Study Crohn's I. At both Week 30 and Week 54, the proportion of patients in clinical response was greater in the every 8-week treatment group than in the every 12-week treatment group (73% vs. 47% at Week 30, and 64% vs. 33% at Week 54). At both Week 30 and Week 54, the proportion of patients in clinical remission was also greater in the every 8-week treatment group than in the every 12-week treatment group (60% vs. 35% at Week 30, and 56% vs. 24% at Week 54), (Table 4). For patients in Study Peds Crohn's receiving corticosteroids at baseline, the proportion of patients able to discontinue corticosteroids while in remission at Week 30 was 46% for the every 8-week maintenance group and 33% for the every 12-week maintenance group. At Week 54, the proportion of patients able to discontinue corticosteroids while in remission was 46% for the every 8-week maintenance group and 17% for the every 12-week maintenance group. Table 4: Response and Remission in Study Peds Crohn's 5 mg/kg REMICADE Every 8 Week Every 12 Week Treatment Group Treatment Group Patients randomized 52 51 Clinical Response Defined as a decrease from baseline in the PCDAI score of ≥15 points and total score of ≤30 points. Week 30 73% P-value <0.01 47% Week 54 64% 33% Clinical Remission Defined as a PCDAI score of ≤10 points. Week 30 60% P-value <0.05 35% Week 54 56% 24% 14.3 Adult Ulcerative Colitis The safety and efficacy of REMICADE were assessed in 2 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical studies in 728 adult patients with moderately to severely active UC (Mayo score 6 to 12 [of possible range 0 to 12], Endoscopy subscore ≥2) with an inadequate response to conventional oral therapies (Studies UC I and UC II). Concomitant treatment with stable doses of aminosalicylates, corticosteroids and/or immunomodulatory agents was permitted. Corticosteroid taper was permitted after Week 8. Patients were randomized at week 0 to receive either placebo, 5 mg/kg REMICADE or 10 mg/kg REMICADE at Weeks 0, 2, 6, and every 8 weeks thereafter through Week 46 in Study UC I, and at Weeks 0, 2, 6, and every 8 weeks thereafter through Week 22 in Study UC II. In Study UC II, patients were allowed to continue blinded therapy to Week 46 at the investigator's discretion. Adult patients in Study UC I had failed to respond or were intolerant to oral corticosteroids, 6-MP, or AZA. Adult patients in Study UC II had failed to respond or were intolerant to the above treatments and/or aminosalicylates. Similar proportions of patients in Studies UC I and UC II were receiving corticosteroids (61% and 51%, respectively), 6-MP/AZA (49% and 43%) and aminosalicylates (70% and 75%) at baseline. More patients in Study UC II than UC I were taking solely aminosalicylates for UC (26% vs. 11%, respectively). Clinical response was defined as a decrease from baseline in the Mayo score by ≥30% and ≥3 points, accompanied by a decrease in the rectal bleeding subscore of ≥1 or a rectal bleeding subscore of 0 or 1. Clinical Response, Clinical Remission, and M
[truncated]

## How supplied
16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied REMICADE ® (infliximab) for injection is supplied in a carton containing one single-dose vial (NDC 57894-030-01). Each single-dose vial contains 100 mg of infliximab as a sterile, preservative-free, white lyophilized powder for reconstitution and dilution (more than one vial may be needed for a full dose) [see Dosage and Administration (2.11) ]. Storage and Handling Store unopened REMICADE ® vials in a refrigerator at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F). If needed, unopened REMICADE vials may be stored at room temperatures up to a maximum of 30°C (86°F) for a single period of up to 6 months but not exceeding the original expiration date. The new expiration date must be written in the space provided on the carton. Once removed from the refrigerator, REMICADE cannot be returned to the refrigerator. For storage conditions of the reconstituted and diluted product for administration, see Dosage and Administration (2.11) .

## Storage and handling
Storage and Handling Store unopened REMICADE ® vials in a refrigerator at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F). If needed, unopened REMICADE vials may be stored at room temperatures up to a maximum of 30°C (86°F) for a single period of up to 6 months but not exceeding the original expiration date. The new expiration date must be written in the space provided on the carton. Once removed from the refrigerator, REMICADE cannot be returned to the refrigerator. For storage conditions of the reconstituted and diluted product for administration, see Dosage and Administration (2.11) .

## Information for patients
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient or their caregiver to read the FDA-approved patient labeling (Medication Guide). Patients or their caregivers should be advised of the potential benefits and risks of REMICADE. Healthcare providers should instruct their patients or their caregivers to read the Medication Guide before starting REMICADE therapy and to reread it each time they receive an infusion. Infections Inform patients that REMICADE increases the risk for developing serious infections. Instruct patients of the importance of contacting their healthcare provider if they develop any symptoms of an infection, including tuberculosis, invasive fungal infections, and reactivation of hepatitis B virus infections [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.3) ] . Malignancies Malignancies have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults who received treatment with TNF blockers. Patients should be counseled about the risk of lymphoma and other malignancies while receiving REMICADE [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Hepatotoxicity Instruct patients to seek medical attention if they develop signs or symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., jaundice) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Heart Failure Instruct patients to seek medical attention and consult their prescriber if they develop signs or symptoms of heart failure [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Hematologic Reactions Instruct patients to seek immediate medical attention if they develop signs and symptoms suggestive of blood dyscrasias or infection (e.g., persistent fever) while on REMICADE [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . Hypersensitivity Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if they experience any symptoms of serious hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Cardiovascular and Cerebrovascular Reactions During and After Infusion Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if they develop any new or worsening symptoms of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular reactions which have been reported during and within 24 hours of initiation of REMICADE infusion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Neurologic Reactions Advise patients to seek medical attention if they develop signs or symptoms of neurologic reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. Live Vaccines/Therapeutic Infectious Agents Instruct REMICADE-treated patients to avoid receiving live vaccines or therapeutic infectious agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ]. Manufactured by: Janssen Biotech, Inc. Horsham, PA 19044 U.S. License No. 1864 © Johnson & Johnson and its affiliates 1998-2025

