Drug: Rinvoq
OpenFDA brand names: Rinvoq
Drug ID: rinvoq
Generic name: UPADACITINIB
Manufacturer: AbbVie Inc.
NDC: 0074-1043, 0074-2306, 0074-2310, 0074-2320
Application number: NDA211675, NDA218347
RxCUI: 2196894, 2196900, 2590051, 2590054, 2596957, 2596960, 2681015, 2681019
Route: ORAL
Pharmacologic class: Janus Kinase Inhibitor [EPC]
Source: openFDA drug label

## Boxed warning
WARNING: SERIOUS INFECTIONS, MORTALITY, MALIGNANCY, MAJOR ADVERSE CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS, and THROMBOSIS SERIOUS INFECTIONS Patients treated with RINVOQ /RINVOQ LQ are at increased risk for developing serious infections that may lead to hospitalization or death [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. Most patients who developed these infections were taking concomitant immunosuppressants such as methotrexate or corticosteroids. If a serious infection develops, interrupt RINVOQ /RINVOQ LQ until the infection is controlled. Reported infections include: Active tuberculosis, which may present with pulmonary or extrapulmonary disease. Patients should be tested for latent tuberculosis before RINVOQ /RINVOQ LQ use and during therapy. Treatment for latent infection should be considered prior to RINVOQ /RINVOQ LQ use. Invasive fungal infections, including cryptococcosis and pneumocystosis. Bacterial, viral, including herpes zoster, and other infections due to opportunistic pathogens. The risks and benefits of treatment with RINVOQ /RINVOQ LQ should be carefully considered prior to initiating therapy in patients with chronic or recurrent infection. Patients should be closely monitored for the development of signs and symptoms of infection during and after treatment with RINVOQ /RINVOQ LQ , including the possible development of tuberculosis in patients who tested negative for latent tuberculosis infection prior to initiating therapy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. MORTALITY In a large, randomized, postmarketing safety study in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients 50 years of age and older with at least one cardiovascular risk factor comparing another Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor to tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blockers, a higher rate of all-cause mortality, including sudden cardiovascular death, was observed with the JAK inhibitor [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . MALIGNANCIES Lymphoma and other malignancies have been observed in patients treated with RINVOQ . In RA patients treated with another JAK inhibitor, a higher rate of malignancies (excluding non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC)) was observed when compared with TNF blockers. Patients who are current or past smokers are at additional increased risk [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . MAJOR ADVERSE CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS In RA patients 50 years of age and older with at least one cardiovascular risk factor treated with another JAK inhibitor, a higher rate of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) (defined as cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, and stroke), was observed when compared with TNF blockers. Patients who are current or past smokers are at additional increased risk. Discontinue RINVOQ /RINVOQ LQ in patients that have experienced a myocardial infarction or stroke [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . THROMBOSIS Thrombos e s, including deep venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, and arterial thrombosis , have occurred in patients treated for inflammatory conditions with J AK inhibitors , including RINVOQ . Many of these adverse events were serious and some resulted in death. In RA patients 50 years of age and older with at least one cardiovascular risk factor treated with another JAK inhibitor, a higher rate of thrombosis was observed when compared with TNF blockers. Avoid RINVOQ /RINVOQ LQ in patients at risk. Patients with symptoms of thrombosis should discontinue RINVOQ /RINVOQ LQ and be promptly evaluated [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. WARNING: SERIOUS INFECTIONS, MORTALITY, MALIGNANCY, MAJOR ADVERSE CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS (MACE), and THROMBOSIS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning. Increased risk of serious bacterial, fungal, viral, and opportunistic infections leading to hospitalization or death, including tuberculosis (TB). Interrupt treatment with RINVOQ / RINVOQ LQ if serious infection occurs until the infection is controlled. Test for latent TB before and during therapy; treat latent TB prior to use. Monitor all patients for active TB during treatment, even patients with initial negative , latent TB test. ( 5.1 ) Higher rate of all-cause mortality, including sudden cardiovascular death with another Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor vs. tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blockers in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. ( 5.2 ) Malignancies have occurred in patients treated with RINVOQ. Higher rate of lymphomas and lung cancers with another JAK inhibitor vs. TNF blockers in RA patients. ( 5.3 ) Higher rate of MACE (defined as cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, and stroke) with another JAK inhibitor vs. TNF blockers in RA patients. ( 5.4 ) Thrombosis has occurred in patients treated with RINVOQ. Increased incidence of pulmonary embolism, venous and arterial thrombosis with another JAK inhibitor vs. TNF blockers. ( 5.5 )

## Indications and usage
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ is a Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor. RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. ( 1.1 ) Limitations of Use RINVOQ is not recommended for use in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biologic DMARDs, or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine. ( 1.1 ) RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ is indicated for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older with active psoriatic arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. ( 1.2 ) Limitation s of Use RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ is not recommended for use in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biologic DMARDs, or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine. ( 1.2 ) RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older with refractory, moderate to severe atopic dermatitis whose disease is not adequately controlled with other systemic drug products, including biologics, or when use of those therapies are inadvisable. ( 1.3 ) Limitations of Use RINVOQ is not recommended for use in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biologic immunomodulators, or with other immunosuppressants. ( 1.3 ) RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (UC) who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. If TNF blockers are clinically inadvisable, patients should have received at least one approved systemic therapy prior to use of RINVOQ. ( 1.4 ) Limitations of Use RINVOQ is not recommended for use in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biological therapies for UC, or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine. ( 1.4 ) RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease (CD) who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. If TNF blockers are clinically inadvisable, patients should have received at least one approved systemic therapy prior to use of RINVOQ. ( 1.5 ) Limitations of Use RINVOQ is not recommended for use in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biological therapies for CD, or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine. ( 1.5 ) RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of adults with active ankylosing spondylitis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. ( 1.6 ) Limitations of Use RINVOQ is not recommended for use in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biologic DMARDs, or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine. ( 1.6 ) RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of adults with active non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis with objective signs of inflammation who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to TNF blocker therapy. ( 1.7 ) Limitations of Use RINVOQ is not recommended for use in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biologic DMARDs, or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine. ( 1.7 ) RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ is indicated for the treatment of patients 2 years of age and older with active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. ( 1.8 ) Limitations of Use RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ is not recommended for use in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biologic DMARDs, or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine. ( 1.8 ) RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of adults with giant cell arteritis ( 1.9 ) Limitations of Use RINVOQ is not recommended for use in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biologic DMARDs, or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine. ( 1.9 ) 1.1 Rheumatoid Arthritis RINVOQ ® is indicated for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. Limitations of Use: RINVOQ is not recommended for use in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biologic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs), or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine. 1.2 Psoriatic Arthritis RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ is indicated for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older with active psoriatic arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. Limitations of Use: RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ is not recommended for use in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biologic DMARDs, or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine. 1.3 Atopic Dermatitis RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older with refractory, moderate to severe atopic dermatitis whose disease is not adequately controlled with other systemic drug products, including biologics, or when use of those therapies are inadvisable. Limitations of Use: RINVOQ is not recommended for use in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biologic immunomodulators, or with other immunosuppressants. 1.4 Ulcerative Colitis RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (UC) who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. If TNF blockers are clinically inadvisable, patients should have received at least one approved systemic therapy prior to use of RINVOQ. Limitations of Use: RINVOQ is not recommended for use in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biological therapies for UC, or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine. 1.5 Crohn’s Disease RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease (CD) who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. If TNF blockers are clinically inadvisable, patients should have received at least one approved systemic therapy prior to use of RINVOQ. Limitations of Use: RINVOQ is not recommended for use in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biological therapies for CD, or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine. 1. 6 Ankylosing Spondylitis RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of adults with active ankylosing spondylitis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. Limitations of Use: RINVOQ is not recommended for use in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biologic DMARDs, or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine. 1. 7 Non-radiographic Axial Spondyloarthritis RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of adults with active non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis with objective signs of inflammation who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to TNF blocker therapy. Limitations of Use: RINVOQ is not recommended for use in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biologic DMARDs, or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine. 1.8 Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ is indicated for the treatment of patients 2 years of age and older with active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. Limitations of Use: RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ is not recommended for use in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biologic DMARDs, or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine. 1.9 Giant Cell Arteritis RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of adults with giant cell arteritis. Limitations of Use: RINVOQ is not recommended for use in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biologic DMARDs, or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine.

## Dosage and administration
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION RINVOQ LQ oral solution is not substitutable with RINVOQ extended-release tablets ( 2.2 , 2.10 ). Changes between RINVOQ LQ oral solution and RINVOQ extended-release tablets should be made by the healthcare provider. Prior to treatment update immunizations and consider evaluating for active and latent tuberculosis, viral hepatitis, hepatic function, and pregnancy status ( 2.1 ) Avoid initiation or interrupt RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ if absolute lymphocyte count is less than 500 cells/mm 3 , absolute neutrophil count is less than 1000 cells/mm 3 , or hemoglobin level is less than 8 g/dL. ( 2.1 , 2.14 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis , Ankylosing Spondylitis, and Non-radiographic Axial Spondyloarthritis Adults: The recommended dosage of RINVOQ is 15 mg once daily. ( 2.3 , 2.8 , 2.9 ) Psoriatic Arthritis Pediatric Patients 2 to less than 18 Years of Age Weighing at Least 10 kg: The recommended dosage is based on body weight ( 2.4 ) Adults: The recommended dosage of RINVOQ is 15 mg once daily. ( 2.4 ) Atopic Dermatitis Pediatric Patients 12 Years of Age and Older Weighing at Least 40 kg and Adults Less Than 65 Years of Age : Initiate treatment with RINVOQ 15 mg orally once daily. If an adequate response is not achieved, consider increasing the dosage to 30 mg orally once daily. ( 2.5 ) Adults 65 Years of Age and Older : Recommended dosage of RINVOQ is 15 mg once daily. ( 2.5 ) Severe Renal Impairment : Recommended dosage of RINVOQ is 15 mg once daily. ( 2.12 ) Ulcerative Colitis Adults: The recommended induction dosage of RINVOQ is 45 mg once daily for 8 weeks. The recommended maintenance dosage of RINVOQ is 15 mg once daily. A maintenance dosage of 30 mg once daily may be considered for patients with refractory, severe, or extensive disease. Discontinue RINVOQ if adequate therapeutic response is not achieved with the 30 mg dosage. Use the lowest effective dosage needed to maintain response. ( 2.6 ) See the Full Prescribing Information for the recommended dosage in patients with renal or hepatic impairment and for dosage modification due to drug interactions. ( 2.12 , 2.13 ) Crohn’s D isease Adults: The recommended induction dosage of RINVOQ is 45 mg once daily for 12 weeks. The recommended maintenance dosage of RINVOQ is 15 mg once daily. A maintenance dosage of 30 mg once daily may be considered for patients with refractory, severe, or extensive disease. Discontinue RINVOQ if an adequate therapeutic response is not achieved with the 30 mg dosage. Use the lowest effective dosage needed to maintain response. ( 2.7 ) See the Full Prescribing Information for the recommended dosage in patients with renal or hepatic impairment and for dosage modification due to drug interactions. ( 2.12 , 2.13 ) Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis The recommended dosage is based on body weight ( 2.10 ) Giant Cell Arteritis The recommended dosage of RINVOQ is 15 mg once daily in combination with a tapering course of corticosteroids. RINVOQ 15 mg once daily can be used as monotherapy following discontinuation of corticosteroids ( 2.11 ) 2.1 Recommended Evaluations and Immunizations Prior to Treatment Initiation Prior to RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ treatment initiation, consider performing the following evaluations: Active and latent tuberculosis (TB) infection evaluation - If positive, treat for TB prior to RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ use [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Viral hepatitis screening in accordance with clinical guidelines – RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ initiation is not recommended in patients with active hepatitis B or hepatitis C [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . A complete blood count – RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ initiation is not recommended in patients with an absolute lymphocyte count less than 500 cells/mm 3 , absolute neutrophil count less than 1000 cells/mm 3 , or hemoglobin level less than 8 g/dL [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.14 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] . Baseline hepatic function: RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ initiation is not recommended for patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Pregnancy Status: Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to starting treatment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 , 8.3 )]. Update immunizations according to current immunization guidelines [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )]. 2.2 Important Administration Instructions RINVOQ LQ oral solution is not substitutable with RINVOQ extended-release tablets [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 , 2.10 )]. Changes between RINVOQ LQ oral solution and RINVOQ extended-release tablets should be made by the health care provider. RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ should be taken orally with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. RINVOQ tablets should be swallowed whole. RINVOQ tablets should not be split, crushed, or chewed. RINVOQ LQ should be administered using the provided press-in bottle adapter and oral dosing syringe [see Instructions for Use ] . RINVOQ LQ is dosed twice daily [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 , 2.10 )]. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Rheumatoid Arthritis The recommended dosage of RINVOQ is 15 mg once daily. 2. 4 Recommended Dosage in Psoriatic Arthritis Pediatric Patients 2 to Less Than 18 Years of Age The recommended dosage is based on body weight ( Table 1 ). Table 1: RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ Dosage for Pediatric Patients 2 Years to Less Than 18 Years of Age with Psoriatic Arthritis Patient Weight RINVOQ LQ RINVOQ 10 kg to less than 20 kg 3 mg (3 mL oral solution) twice daily Not recommended 20 kg to less than 30 kg 4 mg (4 mL oral solution) twice daily Not recommended 30 kg and greater 6 mg (6 mL oral solution) twice daily 15 mg (one 15 mg tablet) once daily RINVOQ LQ oral solution is not substitutable with RINVOQ extended-release tablets. Changes between RINVOQ LQ oral solution and RINVOQ extended-release tablets should be made by the health care provider. Adults 18 Years of Age and Older The recommended dosage of RINVOQ is 15 mg once daily. 2.5 Recommended Dosage in Atopic Dermatitis Pediatric Patients 12 Years of Age and Older Weighing at Least 40 kg and Adults Less Than 65 Years of Age Initiate treatment with RINVOQ 15 mg once daily. If an adequate response is not achieved, consider increasing the dosage to 30 mg once daily. Discontinue RINVOQ if an adequate response is not achieved with the 30 mg dose. Use the lowest effective dose needed to maintain response. Adults 65 Years of Age and Older The recommended dosage of RINVOQ is 15 mg once daily. 2.6 Recommended Dosage in Ulcerative Colitis Adult Patients: Induction The recommended induction dosage of RINVOQ is 45 mg once daily for 8 weeks. Adult Patients: Maintenance The recommended dosage of RINVOQ for maintenance treatment is 15 mg once daily. A dosage of 30 mg once daily may be considered for patients with refractory, severe or extensive disease. Discontinue RINVOQ if an adequate therapeutic response is not achieved with the 30 mg dosage. Use the lowest effective dosage needed to maintain response. 2.7 Recommended Dosage in Crohn’s Disease Adult Patients: Induction The recommended induction dosage of RINVOQ is 45 mg once daily for 12 weeks. Adult Patients: Maintenance The recommended dosage of RINVOQ for maintenance treatment is 15 mg once daily. A dosage of 30 mg once daily may be considered for patients with refractory, severe or extensive disease. Discontinue RINVOQ if an adequate therapeutic response is not achieved with the 30 mg dosage. Use the lowest effective dosage needed to maintain response. 2. 8 Recommended Dosage in Ankylosing Spondylitis The recommended dosage of RINVOQ is 15 mg once daily. 2. 9 Recommend ed Dosage in Non-radiographic Axial Spondyloarthritis The recommended dosage of RINVOQ is 15 mg once daily. 2. 10 Recommended Dosage in Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis The recommended dosage is based on body weight (Table 2). Table 2: RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ Dosage for Patients 2 years and older with pJIA Patient Weight RINVOQ LQ RINVOQ 10 kg to less than 20 kg 3 mg (3 mL oral solution) twice daily Not recommended 20 kg to less than 30 kg 4 mg (4 mL oral solution) twice daily Not recommended 30 kg and greater 6 mg (6 mL oral solution) twice daily 15 mg (one 15 mg tablet) once daily RINVOQ LQ oral solution is not substitutable with RINVOQ extended-release tablets. Changes between RINVOQ LQ oral solution and RINVOQ extended-release tablets should be made by the health care provider. 2.11 Recommended Dosage in Giant Cell Arteritis The recommended dosage of RINVOQ is 15 mg once daily in combination with a tapering course of corticosteroids. RINVOQ 15 mg once daily can be used as monotherapy following discontinuation of corticosteroids. 2.1 2 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment or Hepatic Impairment Renal Impairment Rheumatoid Arthritis , Psoriatic Arthritis , Ankylosing Spondylitis , Non-radiographic Axial Spondyloarthritis , pJIA , and Giant Cell Arteritis : No dosage adjustment is needed for patients with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment. Atopic Dermatitis: For patients with severe renal impairment [estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) 15 to < 30 mL/min/1.73m 2 ] the recommended dosage of RINVOQ is 15 mg once daily [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. No dosage adjustment is needed for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment (eGFR ≥ 30 mL/min/1.73m 2 ). RINVOQ is not recommended for use in patients with end stage renal disease (eGFR < 15 mL/min/1.73m 2 ) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. Ulcerative Colitis: For patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to < 30 mL/min/1.73m 2 ), the recommended dosage of RINVOQ is: • Induction: 30 mg once daily for 8 weeks • Maintenance: 15 mg once daily No dosage adjustment is needed for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment (eGFR ≥ 30 mL/min/1.73m 2 ). RINVOQ is not recommended for use in patients with end stage renal disease (eGFR < 15 mL/min/1.73m 2 ) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Crohn’s Disease : For patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to < 30 mL/min/1.73m 2 ), the recommended dosage of RINVOQ is: • Induction: 30 mg once daily for 12 weeks • Maintenance: 15 mg once daily No dosage adjustment is needed for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment (eGFR ≥ 30 mL/min/1.73m 2 ). RINVOQ is not recommended for use in patients with end stage renal disease (eGFR < 15 mL/min/1.73m 2 ) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Hepatic Impairment RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ is not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )] . Rheumatoid Arthritis , Psoriatic Arthritis , Atopic Dermatitis , Ankylosing Spondylitis , Non-radiographic Axial Spondyloarthritis , pJIA , and Giant Cell Arteritis : No dosage adjustment is needed for patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A or B). Ulcerative Colitis: For patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A or B) the recommended dosage of RINVOQ is: Induction: 30 mg once daily for 8 weeks Maintenance: 15 mg once daily Crohn’s Disease : For patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A or B) the recommended dosage of RINVOQ is: Induction: 30 mg once daily for 12 weeks Maintenance: 15 mg once daily 2. 1 3 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Rheumatoid Arthritis, Psoriatic Arthritis, Ankylos ing Spondylitis , Non-radiographic Axial Spondyloarthritis , pJIA , and Giant Cell Arteritis No dosage adjustment is needed in patients receiving strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Atopic Dermatitis The recommended dosage of RINVOQ in patients receiving strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is 15 mg once daily [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Ulcerative Colitis The recommended dosage of RINVOQ in patients with ulcerative colitis receiving strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see
[truncated]

## Dosage forms and strengths
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS RINVOQ extended-release tablets: 15 mg upadacitinib: purple, biconvex oblong, with dimensions of 14 x 8 mm, and debossed with ‘a15’ on one side. 30 mg upadacitinib: red, biconvex oblong, with dimensions of 14 x 8 mm, and debossed with ‘a30’ on one side. 45 mg upadacitinib: yellow to mottled yellow, biconvex oblong, with dimensions of 14 x 8 mm, and debossed with ‘a45’ on one side. RINVOQ LQ oral solution: 1 mg/mL upadacitinib; clear, colorless to light yellow solution in bottle of 180 mL. RINVOQ extended-release tablets: 15 mg, 30 mg, and 45 mg ( 3 ) RINVOQ LQ oral solution: 1 mg/mL ( 3 )

## Contraindications
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to upadacitinib or any of its excipients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . Known hypersensitivity to upadacitinib or any of the excipients in RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ. ( 4 , 5.6 )

## Warnings and cautions
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious Infections : Avoid use in patients with active, serious infection, including localized infections. ( 5.1 ) Hypersensitivity : Serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis) have been reported. Discontinue if a serious hypersensitivity reaction occurs. ( 5.6 ) Gastrointestinal (GI) Perforations : Monitor patients at risk for GI perforations and promptly evaluate patients with symptoms. ( 5.7 ) Hypoglycemia in Patients with Diabetes: Consider increased monitoring of blood glucose; advise patients with diabetes to notify their healthcare provider if they develop signs or symptoms of hypoglycemia. ( 5.8 ) Laboratory Abnormalities : Monitoring recommended due to potential changes in lymphocytes, neutrophils, hemoglobin, liver enzymes and lipids. ( 5.9 ) Embryo-Fetal Toxicity : May cause fetal harm based on animal studies. Advise female patients of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and to use effective contraception. ( 5.10 , 8.1 , 8.3 ) Vaccinations : Avoid use with live vaccines. ( 5.11 ) Medication Residue in Stool : Observed in stool or ostomy output in patients with shortened GI transit times. Monitor patients clinically and consider alternative treatment if inadequate therapeutic response. ( 5.12 ) 5.1 Serious Infections Serious and sometimes fatal infections have been reported in patients receiving RINVOQ. The most frequent serious infections reported with RINVOQ included pneumonia and cellulitis [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . Among opportunistic infections, tuberculosis, multidermatomal herpes zoster, oral/esophageal candidiasis, and cryptococcosis, were reported with RINVOQ. A higher rate of serious infections was observed with RINVOQ 30 mg compared to RINVOQ 15 mg. Avoid use of RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ in patients with an active, serious infection, including localized infections. Consider the risks and benefits of treatment prior to initiating RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ in patients: with chronic or recurrent infection who have been exposed to tuberculosis with a history of a serious or an opportunistic infection who have resided or traveled in areas of endemic tuberculosis or endemic mycoses; or with underlying conditions that may predispose them to infection. Closely monitor patients for the development of signs and symptoms of infection during and after treatment with RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ. Interrupt RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ if a patient develops a serious or opportunistic infection. A patient who develops a new infection during treatment with RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ should undergo prompt and complete diagnostic testing appropriate for an immunocompromised patient; appropriate antimicrobial therapy should be initiated, the patient should be closely monitored, and RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ should be interrupted if the patient is not responding to antimicrobial therapy. RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ may be resumed once the infection is controlled. Tuberculosis Evaluate and test patients for latent and active tuberculosis (TB) infection prior to administration of RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ. Patients with latent TB should be treated with standard antimycobacterial therapy before initiating RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ. RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ should not be given to patients with active TB. Consider anti-TB therapy prior to initiation of RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ in patients with previously untreated latent TB or active TB in whom an adequate course of treatment cannot be confirmed, and for patients with a negative test for latent TB but who have risk factors for TB infection. Consultation with a physician with expertise in the treatment of TB is recommended to aid in the decision about whether initiating anti-TB therapy is appropriate for an individual patient. During RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ use, monitor patients for the development of signs and symptoms of TB, including patients who tested negative for latent TB infection prior to initiating therapy. Viral R eactivation Viral reactivation, including cases of herpes virus reactivation (e.g., herpes zoster) and hepatitis B virus reactivation, were reported in clinical trials with RINVOQ [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . The risk of herpes zoster appears to be higher in patients treated with RINVOQ in Japan. If a patient develops herpes zoster, consider temporarily interrupting RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ until the episode resolves. Screening for viral hepatitis and monitoring for reactivation should be performed in accordance with clinical guidelines before starting and during therapy with RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ. Patients who were positive for hepatitis C antibody and hepatitis C virus RNA, were excluded from clinical trials. Patients who were positive for hepatitis B surface antigen or hepatitis B virus DNA were excluded from clinical trials. However, cases of hepatitis B reactivation were still reported in patients enrolled in the Phase 3 trials of RINVOQ. If hepatitis B virus DNA is detected while receiving RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ, a liver specialist should be consulted. 5.2 Mortality In a large, randomized, postmarketing safety study of another JAK inhibitor in RA patients 50 years of age and older with at least one cardiovascular risk factor, a higher rate of all-cause mortality, including sudden cardiovascular death, was observed in patients treated with the JAK inhibitor compared with TNF blockers. Consider the benefits and risks for the individual patient prior to initiating or continuing therapy with RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ. 5. 3 Malignancy and Lymphoproliferative Disorders Malignancies, including lymphomas, were observed in clinical trials of RINVOQ [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . In a large, randomized, postmarketing safety study of another JAK inhibitor in RA patients, a higher rate of malignancies (excluding NMSC) was observed in patients treated with the JAK inhibitor compared to those treated with TNF blockers. A higher rate of lymphomas was observed in patients treated with the JAK inhibitor compared to those treated with TNF blockers. A higher rate of lung cancers was observed in current or past smokers treated with the JAK inhibitor compared to those treated with TNF blockers. In this study, current or past smokers had an additional increased risk of overall malignancies. Consider the benefits and risks for the individual patient prior to initiating or continuing therapy with RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ, particularly in patients with a known malignancy (other than a successfully treated NMSC), patients who develop a malignancy when on treatment, and patients who are current or past smokers. Non-Melanoma Skin Cancer NMSCs have been reported in patients treated with RINVOQ. Periodic skin examination is recommended for patients who are at increased risk for skin cancer. Exposure to sunlight and UV light should be limited by wearing protective clothing and using a broad-spectrum sunscreen. 5.4 Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events In a large, randomized, postmarketing safety study of another JAK inhibitor in RA patients 50 years of age and older with at least one cardiovascular risk factor, a higher rate of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) defined as cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI), and non-fatal stroke was observed with the JAK inhibitor compared to those treated with TNF blockers. Patients who are current or past smokers are at additional increased risk. Consider the benefits and risks for the individual patient prior to initiating or continuing therapy with RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ, particularly in patients who are current or past smokers and patients with other cardiovascular risk factors. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious cardiovascular events and the steps to take if they occur. Discontinue RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ in patients that have experienced a myocardial infarction or stroke. 5. 5 Thrombosis Thromboses, including deep venous thrombosis (DVT), pulmonary embolism (PE), and arterial thrombosis, have occurred in patients treated for inflammatory conditions with JAK inhibitors, including RINVOQ. Many of these adverse events were serious and some resulted in death [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . In a large, randomized, postmarketing safety study of another JAK inhibitor in RA patients 50 years of age and older with at least one cardiovascular risk factor, higher rates of overall thrombosis, DVT, and PE were observed compared to those treated with TNF blockers. If symptoms of thrombosis occur, patients should discontinue RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ and be evaluated promptly and treated appropriately. Avoid RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ in patients that may be at increased risk of thrombosis. 5. 6 Hypersensitivity Reactions Serious hypersensitivity reactions such as anaphylaxis and angioedema were reported in patients receiving RINVOQ in clinical trials. If a clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction occurs, discontinue RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ and institute appropriate therapy [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . 5. 7 Gastrointestinal Perforations Gastrointestinal perforations have been reported in clinical trials with RINVOQ [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ) ] . Monitor RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ-treated patients who may be at risk for gastrointestinal perforation (e.g., patients with a history of diverticulitis and those taking concomitant medications including NSAIDs or corticosteroids). Evaluate promptly patients presenting with new onset abdominal pain for early identification of gastrointestinal perforation. 5.8 Hypoglycemia in Patients with Diabetes Hypoglycemia, including severe hypoglycemia, has been reported following initiation of RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ and other JAK inhibitors in patients with diabetes. During treatment with RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ, consider increased monitoring of blood glucose as clinically indicated in patients with diabetes. Advise patients with diabetes to notify their healthcare provider if they develop signs or symptoms of hypoglycemia. 5. 9 Laboratory Abnormalities Neutropenia Treatment with RINVOQ was associated with an increased incidence of neutropenia (ANC less than 1000 cells/mm 3 ). Evaluate neutrophil counts at baseline and thereafter according to routine patient management. Avoid RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ initiation and interrupt RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ treatment in patients with a low neutrophil count (i.e., ANC less than 1000 cells/mm 3 ) [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 , 2.14 )] . Lymphopenia ALC less than 500 cells/mm 3 were reported in RINVOQ-treated patients in clinical trials. Evaluate lymphocyte counts at baseline and thereafter according to routine patient management. Avoid RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ initiation or interrupt RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ treatment in patients with a low lymphocyte count (i.e., less than 500 cells/mm 3 ) [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 , 2.14 )] . Anemia Decreases in hemoglobin levels to less than 8 g/dL were reported in RINVOQ-treated patients in clinical trials. Evaluate hemoglobin at baseline and thereafter according to routine patient management. Avoid RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ initiation or interrupt RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ treatment in patients with a low hemoglobin level (i.e., less than 8 g/dL) [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 , 2.14 )] . Lipids Treatment with RINVOQ was associated with increases in lipid parameters, including total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . Elevations in LDL cholesterol decreased to pre-treatment levels in response to statin therapy. The effect of these lipid parameter elevations on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. Assess lipid parameters approximately 12 weeks after initiation of treatment, and thereafter according to the clinical guidelines for hyperlipidemia. Manage patients according to clinical guidelines for the management of hyperlipidemia. Liver Enzyme Elevations Treatment with RINVOQ was associated with increased incidence of liver enzyme elevations compared to treatment with placebo. Evaluate liver enzymes at baseline and thereafter according to routine patient man
[truncated]

## Adverse reactions
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling: Serious Infections [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Mortality [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Malignancy and Lymphoproliferative Disorders [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] Thrombosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] Gastrointestinal Perforations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Hypoglycemia in Patients with Diabetes [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] Laboratory Abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] Rheumatoid arthritis , psoriatic arthritis , ankylosi ng spondylitis , and n on-radiographic a xial s pondyloarthritis : Adverse reactions (≥ 1%) were: upper respiratory tract infections, herpes zoster, herpes simplex, bronchitis, nausea, cough, pyrexia, acne, and headache. ( 6.1 ) Giant cell arteritis : Adverse reactions (≥ 5%) are upper respiratory tract infections, headache, fatigue, peripheral edema, cough, anemia, rash, herpes zoster, and nausea. ( 6.1 ) Atopic d ermatitis : Adverse reactions (≥ 1%) are: upper respiratory tract infections, acne, herpes simplex, headache, blood creatine phosphokinase increased, cough, hypersensitivity, folliculitis, nausea, abdominal pain, pyrexia, increased weight, herpes zoster, influenza, fatigue, neutropenia, myalgia, and influenza like illness. ( 6.1 ) Ulcerative colitis : Adverse reactions (≥ 5%) reported during induction or maintenance are: upper respiratory tract infections, increased blood creatine phosphokinase, acne, neutropenia, elevated liver enzymes, pyrexia, and rash. ( 6.1 ) Crohn’s disease : Adverse reactions (≥ 5%) reported during induction or maintenance are: upper respiratory tract infections, anemia, pyrexia, acne, herpes zoster, and headache. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact AbbVie Inc. at 1-800-633-9110 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adverse Reactions in Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis A total of 3833 adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis were treated with RINVOQ 15 mg or upadacitinib 30 mg tablets once daily in the Phase 3 clinical trials of whom 2806 were exposed for at least one year. Patients could advance or switch to RINVOQ 15 mg from placebo, or be rescued to RINVOQ from active comparator or placebo from as early as Week 12 depending on the trial design. A total of 2630 patients received at least 1 dose of RINVOQ 15 mg, of whom 1860 were exposed for at least one year. In trials RA-I, RA-II, RA-III and RA-V, 1213 patients received at least 1 dose of RINVOQ 15 mg, of which 986 patients were exposed for at least one year, and 1203 patients received at least 1 dose of upadacitinib 30 mg, of which 946 were exposed for at least one year. Table 4: Adverse Reactions Reported in ≥ 1% of Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients Treated with RINVOQ 15 mg in Placebo-controlled Trials Adverse Reaction Placebo RINVOQ 15 mg N = 1042 (%) N = 1035 (%) Upper respiratory tract infection (URTI)* 9.5 13.5 Nausea 2.2 3.5 Cough 1.0 2.2 Pyrexia 0 1.2 *URTI includes: acute sinusitis, laryngitis, nasopharyngitis, oropharyngeal pain, pharyngitis, pharyngotonsillitis, rhinitis, sinusitis, tonsillitis, viral upper respiratory tract infection Other adverse reactions reported in less than 1% of patients in the RINVOQ 15 mg group and at a higher rate than in the placebo group through Week 12 included pneumonia, herpes zoster, herpes simplex (includes oral herpes), and oral candidiasis. Four integrated datasets are presented in the Specific Adverse Reaction section: Placebo-controlled Trials: Trials RA-III, RA-IV, and RA-V were integrated to represent safety through 12/14 weeks for placebo (n=1042) and RINVOQ 15 mg (n=1035). Trials RA-III and RA-V were integrated to represent safety through 12 weeks for placebo (n=390), RINVOQ 15 mg (n=385), and upadacitinib 30 mg (n=384). Trial RA-IV did not include the 30 mg dose and, therefore, safety data for upadacitinib 30 mg can only be compared with placebo and RINVOQ 15 mg rates from pooling trials RA-III and RA-V. MTX-controlled Trials: Trials RA-I and RA-II were integrated to represent safety through 12/14 weeks for MTX (n=530), RINVOQ 15 mg (n=534), and upadacitinib 30 mg (n=529). 12-Month Exposure Dataset: Trials RA-I, II, III, and V were integrated to represent the long-term safety of RINVOQ 15 mg (n=1213) and upadacitinib 30 mg (n=1203). Exposure adjusted incidence rates were adjusted by trial for all the adverse events reported in this section. Specific Adverse Reactions Infections Placebo-controlled Trials: In RA-III, RA-IV, and RA-V, infections were reported in 218 patients (95.7 per 100 patient-years) treated with placebo and 284 patients (127.8 per 100 patient-years) treated with RINVOQ 15 mg. In RA-III and RA-V, infections were reported in 99 patients (136.5 per 100 patient-years) treated with placebo, 118 patients (164.5 per 100 patient-years) treated with RINVOQ 15 mg, and 126 patients (180.3 per 100 patient-years) treated with upadacitinib 30 mg. MTX-controlled Trials: Infections were reported in 127 patients (119.5 per 100 patient-years) treated with MTX monotherapy, 104 patients (91.8 per 100 patient-years) treated with RINVOQ 15 mg monotherapy, and 128 patients (115.1 per 100 patient-years) treated with upadacitinib 30 mg monotherapy. 12-Month Exposure Dataset: Infections were reported in 615 patients (83.8 per 100 patient-years) treated with RINVOQ 15 mg and 674 patients (99.7 per 100 patient-years) treated with upadacitinib 30 mg. Serious Infections Placebo-controlled Trials: In RA-III, RA-IV, and RA-V, serious infections were reported in 6 patients (2.3 per 100 patient-years) treated with placebo, and 12 patients (4.6 per 100 patient-years) treated with RINVOQ 15 mg. In RA-III and RA-V, serious infections were reported in 1 patient (1.2 per 100 patient-years) treated with placebo, 2 patients (2.3 per 100 patient-years) treated with RINVOQ 15 mg, and 7 patients (8.2 per 100 patient-years) treated with upadacitinib 30 mg. MTX-controlled Trials: Serious infections were reported in 2 patients (1.6 per 100 patient-years) treated with MTX monotherapy, 3 patients (2.4 per 100 patient-years) treated with RINVOQ 15 mg monotherapy, and 8 patients (6.4 per 100 patient-years) treated with upadacitinib 30 mg monotherapy. 12-Month Exposure Dataset: Serious infections were reported in 38 patients (3.5 per 100 patient-years) treated with RINVOQ 15 mg and 59 patients (5.6 per 100 patient-years) treated with upadacitinib 30 mg. The most frequently reported serious infections were pneumonia and cellulitis. Tuberculosis Placebo-controlled Trials and MTX-controlled Trials: In the placebo-controlled period, there were no active cases of tuberculosis reported in the placebo, RINVOQ 15 mg, and upadacitinib 30 mg groups. In the MTX-controlled period, there were no active cases of tuberculosis reported in the MTX monotherapy, RINVOQ 15 mg monotherapy, and upadacitinib 30 mg monotherapy groups. 12-Month Exposure Dataset: Active tuberculosis was reported for 2 patients treated with RINVOQ 15 mg and 1 patient treated with upadacitinib 30 mg. Cases of extra-pulmonary tuberculosis were reported. Opportunistic Infections (excluding tuberculosis) Placebo-controlled Trials: In RA-III, RA-IV, and RA-V, opportunistic infections were reported in 3 patients (1.2 per 100 patient-years) treated with placebo, and 5 patients (1.9 per 100 patient-years) treated with RINVOQ 15 mg. In RA-III and RA-V, opportunistic infections were reported in 1 patient (1.2 per 100 patient-years) treated with placebo, 2 patients (2.3 per 100 patient-years) treated with RINVOQ 15 mg, and 6 patients (7.1 per 100 patient-years) treated with upadacitinib 30 mg. MTX-controlled Trials: Opportunistic infections were reported in 1 patient (0.8 per 100 patient-years) treated with MTX monotherapy, 0 patients treated with RINVOQ 15 mg monotherapy, and 4 patients (3.2 per 100 patient-years) treated with upadacitinib 30 mg monotherapy. 12-Month Exposure Dataset: Opportunistic infections were reported in 7 patients (0.6 per 100 patient-years) treated with RINVOQ 15 mg and 15 patients (1.4 per 100 patient-years) treated with upadacitinib 30 mg. Malignancies Placebo-controlled Trials: In RA-III, RA-IV, and RA-V, malignancies excluding NMSC were reported in 1 patient (0.4 per 100 patient-years) treated with placebo, and 1 patient (0.4 per 100 patient-years) treated with RINVOQ 15 mg. In RA-III and RA-V, malignancies excluding NMSC were reported in 0 patients treated with placebo, 1 patient (1.1 per 100 patient-years) treated with RINVOQ 15 mg, and 3 patients (3.5 per 100 patient-years) treated with upadacitinib 30 mg. MTX-controlled Trials: Malignancies excluding NMSC were reported in 1 patient (0.8 per 100 patient-years) treated with MTX monotherapy, 3 patients (2.4 per 100 patient-years) treated with RINVOQ 15 mg monotherapy, and 0 patients treated with upadacitinib 30 mg monotherapy. 12-Month Exposure Dataset: Malignancies excluding NMSC were reported in 13 patients (1.2 per 100 patient-years) treated with RINVOQ 15 mg and 14 patients (1.3 per 100 patient-years) treated with upadacitinib 30 mg. Gastrointestinal Perforations Placebo-controlled Trials: There were no gastrointestinal perforations (based on medical review) reported in patients treated with placebo, RINVOQ 15 mg, and upadacitinib 30 mg. MTX-controlled Trials: There were no cases of gastrointestinal perforations reported in the MTX and RINVOQ 15 mg group through 12/14 weeks. Two cases of gastrointestinal perforations were observed in the upadacitinib 30 mg group. 12-Month Exposure Dataset: Gastrointestinal perforations were reported in 1 patient treated with RINVOQ 15 mg and 4 patients treated with upadacitinib 30 mg. Thrombosis Placebo-controlled Trials: In RA-IV, venous thrombosis (pulmonary embolism or deep vein thrombosis) was observed in 1 patient treated with placebo and 1 patient treated with RINVOQ 15 mg. In RA-V, venous thrombosis was observed in 1 patient treated with RINVOQ 15 mg. There were no observed cases of venous thrombosis reported in RA-III. No cases of arterial thrombosis were observed through 12/14 weeks. MTX-controlled Trials: In RA-II, venous thrombosis was observed in 0 patients treated with MTX monotherapy, 1 patient treated with RINVOQ 15 mg monotherapy and 0 patients treated with upadacitinib 30 mg monotherapy through Week 14. In RA-II, no cases of arterial thrombosis were observed through 12/14 weeks. In RA-I, venous thrombosis was observed in 1 patient treated with MTX, 0 patients treated with RINVOQ 15 mg and 1 patient treated with upadacitinib 30 mg through Week 24. In RA-I, arterial thrombosis was observed in 1 patient treated with upadacitinib 30 mg through Week 24. 12-Month Exposure Dataset: Venous thrombosis events were reported in 5 patients (0.5 per 100 patient-years) treated with RINVOQ 15 mg and 4 patients (0.4 per 100 patient-years) treated with upadacitinib 30 mg. Arterial thrombosis events were reported in 0 patients treated with RINVOQ 15 mg and 2 patients (0.2 per 100 patient-years) treated with upadacitinib 30 mg. Laboratory Abnormalities Hepatic Transaminase Elevations In placebo-controlled trials (RA-III, RA-IV, and RA-V) with background DMARDs, for up to 12/14 weeks, alanine transaminase (ALT) and aspartate transaminase (AST) elevations ≥ 3 x upper limit of normal (ULN) in at least one measurement were observed in 2.1% and 1.5% of patients treated with RINVOQ 15 mg, and in 1.5% and 0.7% of patients treated with placebo,
[truncated]

## Drug interactions
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors : See the Full Prescribing Information for dosage modification for patients with atopic dermatitis, ulcerative colitis, and Crohn’s disease. ( 2.13 , 7.1 ) Strong CYP3A4 Inducers : Coadministration of RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ with strong CYP3A4 inducers is not recommended. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Upadacitinib exposure is increased when it is co-administered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (such as ketoconazole, clarithromycin, and grapefruit), which may increase the risk of adverse reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Monitor patients with rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, non-radiographic axial spondylarthritis, pJIA, or giant cell arteritis closely for adverse reactions when co-administering RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Food or drink containing grapefruit should be avoided during treatment with RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ. For patients with atopic dermatitis, coadministration of RINVOQ 30 mg once daily with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is not recommended. For patients with ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s disease taking strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, reduce the RINVOQ induction dosage to 30 mg once daily. The recommended maintenance dosage is 15 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.13 )] . 7.2 Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Upadacitinib exposure is decreased when it is co-administered with strong CYP3A4 inducers (such as rifampin), which may lead to reduced therapeutic effect [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Coadministration of RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ with strong CYP3A4 inducers is not recommended.

## Use in specific populations
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed. ( 8.2 ) Hepatic Impairment : RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment. ( 8.7 ) 8.1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Surveillance Program There is a pregnancy surveillance program for RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ. If RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ exposure occurs during pregnancy, healthcare providers or patients should report the pregnancy by calling 1-800-633-9110. Risk Summary Available data from the pharmacovigilance safety database and postmarketing case reports on use of RINVOQ in pregnant women are not sufficient to evaluate a drug-associated risk for major birth defects or miscarriage. Based on animal studies, RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ has the potential to adversely affect a developing fetus. Advise patients of reproductive potential and pregnant patients of the potential risk to the fetus. In animal embryo-fetal development studies, oral upadacitinib administration to pregnant rats and rabbits at exposures equal to or greater than approximately 1.6 and 15 times the 15 mg tablet dose, 0.8 and 7.6 times the 30 mg tablet dose, and 0.6 and 5.6 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 45 mg (on an AUC basis) resulted in dose-related increases in skeletal malformations (rats only), an increased incidence of cardiovascular malformations (rabbits only), increased post-implantation loss (rabbits only), and decreased fetal body weights in both rats and rabbits. No developmental toxicity was observed in pregnant rats and rabbits treated with oral upadacitinib during organogenesis at exposures approximately 0.29 and 2.2 times the 15 mg dose, 0.15 times and 1.1 times the 30 mg dose, and at 0.11 and 0.82 times the MRHD (on an AUC basis). In a pre- and post-natal development study in pregnant female rats, oral upadacitinib administration at exposures approximately 3 times the 15 mg dose, 1.4 times the 30 mg dose, and the same as the MRHD (on an AUC basis) resulted in no maternal or developmental toxicity ( see Data ) . The background risks of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations are unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriages are 2-4% and 15-20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Disease-Associated Maternal and/or Embryo/Fetal Risk Published data suggest that increased disease activity is associated with the risk of developing adverse pregnancy outcomes in women with rheumatoid arthritis or inflammatory bowel disease. Adverse pregnancy outcomes include preterm delivery (before 37 weeks of gestation), low birth weight (less than 2500 g) infants, and small for gestational age at birth. Data Animal Data In an oral embryo-fetal development study, pregnant rats received upadacitinib at doses of 5, 25, and 75 mg/kg/day during the period of organogenesis from gestation day 6 to 17. Upadacitinib was teratogenic (skeletal malformations that consisted of misshapen humerus and bent scapula) at exposures equal to or greater than approximately 1.7 times the 15 mg tablet dose, 0.9 times the 30 mg tablet dose, and 0.6 times the MRHD (on an AUC basis at maternal oral doses of 5 mg/kg/day and higher). Additional skeletal malformations (bent forelimbs/hindlimbs and rib/vertebral defects) and decreased fetal body weights were observed in the absence of maternal toxicity at an exposure approximately 84 times the 15 mg dose, 43 times the 30 mg dose, and 31 times the MRHD (on an AUC basis at a maternal oral dose of 75 mg/kg/day). In a second oral embryo-fetal development study, pregnant rats received upadacitinib at doses of 1.5 and 4 mg/kg/day during the period of organogenesis from gestation day 6 to 17. Upadacitinib was teratogenic (skeletal malformations that included bent humerus and scapula) at exposures approximately 1.6 times the 15 mg dose, 0.8 times the 30 mg dose, and 0.6 times the MRHD (on an AUC basis at maternal oral doses of 4 mg/kg/day). No developmental toxicity was observed in rats at an exposure approximately 0.29 times the 15 mg tablet dose, 0.15 times the 30 mg tablet dose, and 0.11 times the MRHD (on an AUC basis at a maternal oral dose of 1.5 mg/kg/day). In an oral embryo-fetal developmental study, pregnant rabbits received upadacitinib at doses of 2.5, 10, and 25 mg/kg/day during the period of organogenesis from gestation day 7 to 19. Embryolethality, decreased fetal body weights, and cardiovascular malformations were observed in the presence of maternal toxicity at an exposure approximately 15 times the 15 mg tablet dose, 7.6 times the 30 mg tablet dose, and 5.6 times the MRHD (on an AUC basis at a maternal oral dose of 25 mg/kg/day). Embryolethality consisted of increased post-implantation loss that was due to elevated incidences of both total and early resorptions. No developmental toxicity was observed in rabbits at an exposure approximately 2.2 times the 15 mg tablet dose, 1.1 times the 30 mg tablet dose, and 0.82 times the MRHD (on an AUC basis at a maternal oral dose of 10 mg/kg/day). In an oral pre- and post-natal development study, pregnant female rats received upadacitinib at doses of 2.5, 5, and 10 mg/kg/day from gestation day 6 through lactation day 20. No maternal or developmental toxicity was observed in either mothers or offspring, respectively, at an exposure approximately 3 times the 15 mg tablet dose, 1.4 times the 30 mg tablet dose, and at approximately the same exposure as the MRHD (on an AUC basis at a maternal oral dose of 10 mg/kg/day). 8.2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of upadacitinib in human milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. Available pharmacodynamic/toxicological data in animals have shown excretion of upadacitinib in milk (see Data ). When a drug is present in animal milk, it is likely that the drug will be present in human milk. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed infant, advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ, and for 6 days (approximately 10 half-lives) after the last dose. Data A single oral dose of 10 mg/kg radiolabeled upadacitinib was administered to lactating female Sprague-Dawley rats on post-partum days 7-8. Drug exposure was approximately 30-fold greater in milk than in maternal plasma based on AUC 0-t values. Approximately 97% of drug-related material in milk was parent drug. 8.3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy Testing Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to starting treatment with RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 )] . Contraception Females Based on animal studies, upadacitinib may cause embryo-fetal harm when administered to pregnant women [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 )] . Advise female patients of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ and for 4 weeks after the final dose. 8.4 Pediatric Use Ankylosing Spondylitis , Non-radiographic Axial Spondyloarthritis , Ulcerative Colitis, and Crohn’s Disease The safety and effectiveness of RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ in pediatric patients with ankylosing spondylitis, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis, ulcerative colitis, or Crohn’s disease have not been established. Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis and Psoriatic Arthritis The safety and effectiveness of RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ in pediatric patients 2 to less than 18 years of age with pJIA and psoriatic arthritis have been established. The use of RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ in these age groups is supported by evidence from well-controlled studies of RINVOQ in adults with rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis, pharmacokinetic data from adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis and 51 pediatric patients with JIA with active polyarthritis, and safety data from 83 pediatric patients 2 to < 18 years of age with JIA with active polyarthritis. Upadacitinib plasma exposures in pediatric patients with pJIA and psoriatic arthritis at the recommended dosage are predicted to be comparable to those observed in adults with rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis based on population pharmacokinetic modeling and simulation [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 , 2.10 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.8 )] . The safety and effectiveness of RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ in pediatric patients less than 2 years of age with pJIA or psoriatic arthritis have not been established. Atopic Dermatitis The safety and effectiveness of RINVOQ in pediatric patients 12 years of age and older weighing at least 40 kg with atopic dermatitis have been established. A total of 344 pediatric patients aged 12 to 17 years with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis were randomized across three trials (AD-1, AD-2 and AD-3) to receive either RINVOQ 15 mg (N=114) or 30 mg (N=114) or matching placebo (N=116) in monotherapy or combination with topical corticosteroids. Efficacy was consistent between the pediatric patients and adults [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . The adverse reaction profile in the pediatric patients was similar to the adults [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. The safety and effectiveness of RINVOQ in pediatric patients less than 12 years of age with atopic dermatitis have not been established. The safety and effectiveness of RINVOQ LQ in pediatric patients with atopic dermatitis have not been established. 8.5 Geriatric Use Rheumatoid Arthritis and Psoriatic Arthritis Of the 4381 patients treated in the five clinical trials, a total of 906 rheumatoid arthritis patients were 65 years of age or older, including 146 patients 75 years and older. Of the 1827 patients treated in the two psoriatic arthritis Phase 3 clinical trials, a total of 274 patients were 65 years of age or older, including 34 patients 75 years and older. No differences in effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients; however, there was a higher rate of overall adverse events, including serious infections, in patients 65 years of age and older. Atopic Dermatitis Of the 2583 patients treated in the three Phase 3 clinical trials, a total of 120 patients with atopic dermatitis were 65 years of age or older, including 6 patients 75 years of age. No differences in effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients; however, there was a higher rate of serious infections and malignancies in those patients 65 years of age or older in the 30 mg dosing group in the long-term trials. Ulcerative Colitis Of the 1097 patients treated in the controlled clinical trials, a total of 95 patients with ulcerative colitis were 65 years and older. Clinical studies of RINVOQ did not include sufficient numbers of patients 65 years of age and older with ulcerative colitis to determine whether they respond differently from younger adult patients. Crohn’s Disease Of the 1021 patients who were treated in the controlled induction clinical trials, a total of 39 patients with Crohn’s disease were 65 years of age or older, and no patients were 75 years of age or older. Clinical studies of RINVOQ did not include sufficient numbers of patients 65 years of age and older with Crohn’s disease to determine whether they respond differently from younger adult patients. Ankylosing Spondylitis Of the 607 patients treated in the controlled clinical trials, a total of 32 patients with ankylosing spondylitis were 65 years and older. Clinical studies of RINVOQ did not include sufficient numbers of patients 65 years of age and older with ankylosing spondylitis to determine whether they respond differently from younger adult patients. Non-radiographic Axial Spondyloarthritis Of the 313 patients treated in a phase 3 clinical trial,
[truncated]

## Description
11 DESCRIPTION RINVOQ and RINVOQ LQ are formulated with upadacitinib, a JAK inhibitor. Upadacitinib has the following chemical name: (3 S ,4 R )-3-Ethyl-4-(3 H -imidazo[1,2- a ]pyrrolo[2,3- e ]pyrazin-8-yl)- N -(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)pyrrolidine-1-carboxamide hydrate (2:1). The strength of upadacitinib is based on anhydrous upadacitinib. The solubility of upadacitinib in water is 38 to less than 0.2 mg/mL across a pH range of 2 to 9 at 37 o C. Upadacitinib has a molecular weight of 389.38 g/mol and a molecular formula of C 17 H 19 F 3 N 6 O • ½ H 2 O. The chemical structure of upadacitinib is: RINVOQ 15 mg extended-release tablets for oral administration are purple, biconvex oblong, with dimensions of 14 x 8 mm, and debossed with ‘a15’ on one side. Each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients: colloidal silicon dioxide, ferrosoferric oxide, hypromellose, iron oxide red, magnesium stearate, mannitol, microcrystalline cellulose, polyvinyl alcohol, polyethylene glycol, talc, tartaric acid and titanium dioxide. RINVOQ 30 mg extended-release tablets for oral administration are red, biconvex oblong, with dimensions of 14 x 8 mm, and debossed with ‘a30’ on one side. Each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients: colloidal silicon dioxide, hypromellose, iron oxide red, magnesium stearate, mannitol, microcrystalline cellulose, polyvinyl alcohol, polyethylene glycol, talc, tartaric acid and titanium dioxide. RINVOQ 45 mg extended-release tablets for oral administration are yellow to mottled yellow, biconvex oblong, with dimensions of 14 x 8 mm, and debossed with ‘a45’ on one side. Each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients: colloidal silicon dioxide, hypromellose, iron oxide yellow, iron oxide red, magnesium stearate, mannitol, microcrystalline cellulose, polyvinyl alcohol, polyethylene glycol, talc, tartaric acid and titanium dioxide. RINVOQ LQ oral solution for oral administration is a 1 mg/mL clear, colorless to light yellow solution. Each 1 mL RINVOQ LQ contains 1 mg of upadacitinib as free base (equivalent to 1.02 mg upadacitinib hemihydrate) and the following inactive ingredients: citric acid anhydrous, purified water, sodium benzoate, sodium citrate dihydrate, and sucralose. upadacitinib-chem-structure

## Clinical pharmacology
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Upadacitinib is a Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor. JAKs are intracellular enzymes which transmit signals arising from cytokine or growth factor-receptor interactions on the cellular membrane to influence cellular processes of hematopoiesis and immune cell function. Within the signaling pathway, JAKs phosphorylate and activate signal transducers and activators of transcription (STATs) which modulate intracellular activity including gene expression. Upadacitinib modulates the signaling pathway at the point of JAKs, preventing the phosphorylation and activation of STATs. JAK enzymes transmit cytokine signaling through their pairing (e.g., JAK1/JAK2, JAK1/JAK3, JAK1/TYK2, JAK2/JAK2, JAK2/TYK2). In a cell-free isolated enzyme assay, upadacitinib had greater inhibitory potency at JAK1 and JAK2 relative to JAK3 and TYK2. In human leukocyte cellular assays, upadacitinib inhibited cytokine-induced STAT phosphorylation mediated by JAK1 and JAK1/JAK3 more potently than JAK2/JAK2 mediated STAT phosphorylation. The relevance of inhibition of specific JAK enzymes to therapeutic effectiveness is not currently known. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Inhibition of IL-6 I nduced STAT3 and IL-7 I nduced STAT5 P hosphorylation In healthy volunteers, the administration of upadacitinib (immediate release formulation) resulted in a dose- and concentration-dependent inhibition of IL-6 (JAK1/JAK2)-induced STAT3 and IL-7 (JAK1/JAK3)-induced STAT5 phosphorylation in whole blood. The maximal inhibition was observed 1 hour after dosing which returned to near baseline by the end of dosing interval. Lymphocytes In patients with rheumatoid arthritis, treatment with upadacitinib was associated with a small, transient increase in mean ALC from baseline up to Week 36 which gradually returned to, at or near baseline levels with continued treatment. Immunoglobulins In patients with rheumatoid arthritis, small decreases from baseline in mean IgG and IgM levels were observed with upadacitinib treatment in the controlled period; however, the mean values at baseline and at all visits were within the normal reference range. Cardiac Electrophysiology At 2.5 times the mean exposure of the maximum therapeutic dose, 45 mg once daily dose, there was no clinically relevant effect on the QTc interval. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Upadacitinib plasma exposures are proportional to dose over the therapeutic dose range. After a single dose administration of RINVOQ 15 mg, 30 mg, and 45 mg tablets under fasting condition in healthy subjects, mean C max was 31.6 ng/mL, 71.8 ng/mL, and 90.7 ng/mL, respectively, and mean AUC inf was 265 ng·h/mL, 543 ng·h/mL, and 752 ng·h/mL, respectively. Steady-state plasma concentrations are achieved within 4 days with minimal accumulation after once daily administration. Following the administration of the recommended pediatric dosage ( Table 1 , Table 2 ) in pJIA and psoriatic arthritis patients, the mean steady-state C max is predicted to be 47.6 ng/mL and the mean steady-state AUC 0-24 is predicted to be 342 ng·h/mL. Upadacitinib pharmacokinetics are comparable between rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, atopic dermatitis, ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease, ankylosing spondylitis, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis, and giant cell arteritis patients. RINVOQ tablets and RINVOQ LQ are not bioequivalent; therefore, the 2 dosage forms are not interchangeable on a milligram-per-milligram basis [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )] . Absorption Following oral administration of RINVOQ extended-release tablets, upadacitinib is absorbed with a median T max of 2 to 4 hours. Following oral administration of 6 mg RINVOQ LQ, upadacitinib is absorbed with a median T max of 1 hour. Coadministration of RINVOQ tablets with a high-fat/high-calorie meal had no clinically relevant effect on upadacitinib exposures (increased AUC inf by 29% and C max by 39% to 60%). Coadministration of RINVOQ LQ with food is not expected to have a clinically relevant effect on upadacitinib exposure [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )] . Distribution Upadacitinib is 52% bound to plasma proteins. Upadacitinib partitions similarly between plasma and blood cellular components with a blood to plasma ratio of 1.0. Elimination Metabolism Upadacitinib metabolism is mediated by mainly CYP3A4 with a potential minor contribution from CYP2D6. The pharmacologic activity of upadacitinib is attributed to the parent molecule. In a human radiolabeled study, unchanged upadacitinib accounted for 79% of the total radioactivity in plasma while the main metabolite detected (product of monooxidation followed by glucuronidation) accounted for 13% of the total plasma radioactivity. No active metabolites have been identified for upadacitinib. Excretion Following single dose administration of [ 14 C]-upadacitinib immediate-release solution, upadacitinib was eliminated predominantly as the unchanged parent drug in urine (24%) and feces (38%). Approximately 34% of upadacitinib dose was excreted as metabolites. Upadacitinib mean terminal elimination half-life ranged from 8 to 14 hours. Specific Populations Body Weight, Gender, and Race Body weight, gender, race, and ethnicity did not have a clinically meaningful effect on upadacitinib exposure in adult patient populations. Pediatric Patients In pediatric patients with JIA with active polyarthritis, upadacitinib clearance increased with increasing body weight. Age (over the range of 2 to < 18 years old) had no additional effect on upadacitinib pharmacokinetics after accounting for the effect of body weight. Upadacitinib plasma exposures in pediatric patients with pJIA and psoriatic arthritis following the recommended pediatric dosage are predicted to be comparable to those observed in adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis, respectively. No meaningful difference in the systemic exposure of upadacitinib was observed in pediatric patients with atopic dermatitis 12 years of age and older weighing at least 40 kg compared to adults. Geriatric Patients No clinically meaningful differences in the pharmacokinetics of upadacitinib were observed in geriatric patients (≥ 65 years of age) compared to younger adult patients. Patients with Renal Impairment Upadacitinib mean AUC inf after a single dose administration of 15 mg upadacitinib tablets was 18%, 33%, and 44% higher in patients with mild (eGFR 60 to < 90 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), moderate (eGFR 30 to < 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), and severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), respectively, compared to subjects with normal renal function (eGFR ≥ 90 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ). Upadacitinib mean C max was similar among subjects with normal and impaired renal function. In patients receiving RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ, mild and moderate renal impairment is not expected to have a clinically relevant effect on upadacitinib exposure [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.12 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Patients with Hepatic Impairment Upadacitinib mean AUC inf after a single dose administration of 15 mg upadacitinib tablets was 28% and 24% higher in patients with mild (Child-Pugh A) and moderate (Child-Pugh B) hepatic impairment, respectively, compared to subjects with normal liver function. Upadacitinib mean C max was unchanged in patients with mild hepatic impairment and 43% higher in patients with moderate hepatic impairment compared to subjects with normal liver function. Upadacitinib was not studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.12 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )] . Drug Interaction Studies Potential for Other Drugs to Influence the Pharmacokinetics of Upadacitinib Upadacitinib is metabolized in vitro by CYP3A4 with a minor contribution from CYP2D6. The effect of co-administered drugs on upadacitinib plasma exposures is provided in Table 11 [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Table 11: Change in Pharmacokinetics of Upadacitinib in the Presence of Co-administered Drugs Co- administered Drug Regimen of Co- administered Drug Ratio (90% CI) a C max AUC Methotrexate 10 to 25 mg/week 0.97 (0.86-1.09) 0.99 (0.93- 1.06) Strong CYP3A4 inhibitor: Ketoconazole 400 mg once daily x 6 days 1.70 (1.55-1.89) 1.75 (1.62-1.88) Strong CYP3A4 inducer: Rifampin 600 mg once daily x 9 days 0.49 (0.44-0.55) 0.39 (0.37-0.42) OATP1B inhibitor: Rifampin 600 mg single dose 1.14 (1.02-1.28) 1.07 (1.01-1.14) CI: Confidence interval a Ratios for C max and AUC compare co-administration of the medication with upadacitinib vs. administration of upadacitinib alone. pH modifying medications (e.g., antacids or proton pump inhibitors) are not expected to affect upadacitinib plasma exposures based on in vitro assessments and population pharmacokinetic analyses. CYP2D6 metabolic phenotype had no effect on upadacitinib pharmacokinetics (based on population pharmacokinetic analyses), indicating that inhibitors of CYP2D6 have no clinically relevant effect on upadacitinib exposures. Potential for Upadacitinib to Influence the Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs In vitro studies indicate that upadacitinib does not inhibit the activity of cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes (CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4) at clinically relevant concentrations. In vitro studies indicate that upadacitinib induces CYP3A4 but does not induce CYP2B6 or CYP1A2 at clinically relevant concentrations. In vitro studies indicate that upadacitinib does not inhibit the transporters P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT1, OCT2, OAT1, OAT3, MATE1, and MATE2K at clinically relevant concentrations. Clinical studies indicate that upadacitinib has no clinically relevant effects on the pharmacokinetics of co-administered drugs. Following upadacitinib 30 mg and 45 mg tablets once daily, the effects on each CYP enzymes (CYP1A2, CYP3A, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19) were similar between two doses except for the effect on CYP2D6. Following upadacitinib 30 mg and 45 mg tablets once daily, a weak induction of CYP3A4 was observed. A weak inhibition of CYP2D6 was observed at upadacitinib 45 mg but not at 30 mg. Summary of results from clinical studies which evaluated the effect of upadacitinib on other drugs is provided in Table 12. Table 1 2 : Change in Pharmacokinetics of Co-administered Drugs or In Vivo Markers of CYP Activity in the Presence of Upadacitinib Co-administered Drug or CYP Activity Marker Multiple-Dose Regimen of Upadacitinib Ratio (90% CI) a C max AUC Methotrexate 6 mg to 24 mg BID b 1.03 (0.86-1.23) 1.14 (0.91-1.43) Sensitive CYP1A2 Substrate: Caffeine 45 mg QD c 1.05 (0.97-1.14) 1.04 (0.95-1.13) Sensitive CYP3A Substrate: Midazolam 30 mg QD c 0.74 (0.68-0.80) 0.74 (0.68-0.80) Sensitive CYP3A Substrate: Midazolam 45 mg QD c 0.75 (0.69 -0.83) 0.76 (0.69 -0.83) Sensitive CYP2D6 Substrate: Dextromethorphan 30 mg QD c 1.09 (0.98-1.21) 1.07 (0.95-1.22) Sensitive CYP2D6 Substrate: Dextromethorphan 45 mg QD c 1.30 (1.13-1.50) 1.35 (1.18-1.54) Sensitive CYP2C9 Substrate: S-Warfarin 45 mg QD c 1.18 (1.05-1.33) 1.12 (1.05-1.20) Sensitive CYP2C19 Marker: 5-OH Omeprazole to Omeprazole metabolic ratio 45 mg QD c -- 0.96 (0.90-1.02) CYP2B6 Substrate: Bupropion 30 mg QD c 0.87 (0.79-0.96) 0.92 (0.87-0.98) Rosuvastatin 30 mg QD c 0.77 (0.63-0.94) 0.67 (0.56-0.82) Atorvastatin 30 mg QD c 0.88 (0.79-0.97) 0.77 (0.70-0.85) Ethinylestradiol 30 mg QD c 0.96 (0.89-1.02) 1.11 (1.04-1.19) Levonorgestrel 30 mg QD c 0.96 (0.87-1.06) 0.96 (0.85-1.07) CYP: cytochrome P450; CI: Confidence interval; BID: twice daily; QD: once daily a Ratios for C max and AUC compare co-administration of the medication with upadacitinib vs. administration of medication alone. b Immediate-release formulation c Extended-release tablet formulation

## Mechanism of action
12.1 Mechanism of Action Upadacitinib is a Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor. JAKs are intracellular enzymes which transmit signals arising from cytokine or growth factor-receptor interactions on the cellular membrane to influence cellular processes of hematopoiesis and immune cell function. Within the signaling pathway, JAKs phosphorylate and activate signal transducers and activators of transcription (STATs) which modulate intracellular activity including gene expression. Upadacitinib modulates the signaling pathway at the point of JAKs, preventing the phosphorylation and activation of STATs. JAK enzymes transmit cytokine signaling through their pairing (e.g., JAK1/JAK2, JAK1/JAK3, JAK1/TYK2, JAK2/JAK2, JAK2/TYK2). In a cell-free isolated enzyme assay, upadacitinib had greater inhibitory potency at JAK1 and JAK2 relative to JAK3 and TYK2. In human leukocyte cellular assays, upadacitinib inhibited cytokine-induced STAT phosphorylation mediated by JAK1 and JAK1/JAK3 more potently than JAK2/JAK2 mediated STAT phosphorylation. The relevance of inhibition of specific JAK enzymes to therapeutic effectiveness is not currently known.

## Clinical studies
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Figure 1. Percent of Patients Achieving ACR20 in Trial RA-IV Figure 2. Percent of Patients Achieving ACR20 in Study PsA-II Figure 3: Proportion of Patients with Moderate to Severe AD with ≥4-point Improvement in the Worst Pruritus NRS in Monotherapy Trials Figure 4: Proportion of Patients with Moderate to Severe AD with ≥4-point Improvement in the Worst Pruritus NRS in Concomitant TCS Trial Figure 5. Percent of Patients Achieving ASAS40 in Trial AS-II* Figure 6. Percent of Patients Achieving ASAS40* 14.1 Rheumatoid Arthritis The efficacy and safety of RINVOQ 15 mg once daily were assessed in five Phase 3 randomized, double-blind, multicenter trials in patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis and fulfilling the ACR/EULAR 2010 classification criteria. Patients 18 years of age and older were eligible to participate. The presence of at least 6 tender and 6 swollen joints and evidence of systemic inflammation based on elevation of hsCRP was required at baseline. Although other doses have been studied, the recommended dosage of RINVOQ is 15 mg once daily. Trial RA-I (NCT02706873) was a 24-week monotherapy trial in 947 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were naïve to methotrexate (MTX). Patients received RINVOQ 15 mg or upadacitinib 30 mg orally once daily or MTX as monotherapy. At Week 26, non-responding patients on upadacitinib could be rescued with the addition of MTX, while patients on MTX could be rescued with the addition of blinded RINVOQ 15 mg or upadacitinib 30 mg once daily. The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients who achieved an ACR50 response at Week 12. Key secondary endpoints included disease activity score (DAS28-CRP) ≤3.2 at Week 12, DAS28-CRP <2.6 at Week 24, change from baseline in HAQ-DI at Week 12, and change from baseline in van der Heijde-modified total Sharp Score (mTSS) at Week 24. Trial RA-II (NCT02706951) was a 14-week monotherapy trial in 648 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who had an inadequate response to MTX. Patients received RINVOQ 15 mg or upadacitinib 30 mg once daily monotherapy or continued their stable dose of MTX monotherapy. At Week 14, patients who were randomized to MTX were advanced to RINVOQ 15 mg or upadacitinib 30 mg once daily monotherapy in a blinded manner based on pre-determined assignment at baseline. The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients who achieved an ACR20 response at Week 14. Key secondary endpoints included DAS28-CRP ≤3.2, DAS28-CRP <2.6, and change from baseline in HAQ-DI at Week 14. Trial RA-III (NCT02675426) was a 12-week trial in 661 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who had an inadequate response to conventional disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (cDMARDs). Patients received RINVOQ 15 mg or upadacitinib 30 mg once daily or placebo added to background cDMARD therapy. At Week 12, patients who were randomized to placebo were advanced to RINVOQ 15 mg or upadacitinib 30 mg once daily in a blinded manner based on pre-determined assignment at baseline. The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients who achieved an ACR20 response at Week 12. Key secondary endpoints included DAS28-CRP ≤3.2, DAS28-CRP<2.6, and change from baseline in HAQ-DI at Week 12. Trial RA-IV (NCT02629159) was a 48-week trial in 1629 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who had an inadequate response to MTX. Patients received RINVOQ 15 mg once daily, active comparator, or placebo added to background MTX. From Week 14, non-responding patients on RINVOQ 15 mg could be rescued to active comparator in a blinded manner, and non-responding patients on active comparator or placebo could be rescued to RINVOQ 15 mg in a blinded manner. At Week 26, all patients randomized to placebo were switched to RINVOQ 15 mg once daily in a blinded manner. The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients who achieved an ACR20 response at Week 12 versus placebo. Key secondary endpoints versus placebo included DAS28-CRP ≤3.2, DAS28-CRP <2.6, change from baseline in HAQ-DI at Week 12, and change from baseline in mTSS at Week 26. Trial RA-V (NCT02706847) was a 12-week trial in 499 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who had an inadequate response or intolerance to biologic DMARDs. Patients received RINVOQ 15 mg or upadacitinib 30 mg once daily or placebo added to background cDMARD therapy. At Week 12, patients who were randomized to placebo were advanced to RINVOQ 15 mg or upadacitinib 30 mg once daily in a blinded manner based on pre-determined assignment at baseline. The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients who achieved an ACR20 response at Week 12. Key secondary endpoints included DAS28-CRP ≤3.2 and change from baseline in HAQ-DI at Week 12. Clinical Response The percentages of RINVOQ-treated patients achieving ACR20, ACR50, and ACR70 responses, and DAS28(CRP) < 2.6 in all trials are shown in Table 13. Patients treated with RINVOQ 15 mg, alone or in combination with cDMARDs, achieved higher ACR response rates compared to MTX monotherapy or placebo, respectively, at the primary efficacy timepoint ( Table 13 ). In Trial IV, the percent of patients achieving ACR20 response by visit is shown in Figure 1. In Trials RA-III and RA-V, higher ACR20 response rates were observed at 1 week with RINVOQ 15 mg versus placebo. Treatment with RINVOQ 15 mg, alone or in combination with cDMARDs, resulted in greater improvements in the ACR components compared to MTX or placebo at the primary efficacy timepoint ( Table 14 ). Table 13: Clinical Response in RA Patients in Trials RA-I, RA-II, RA-III, RA-IV and RA V Trial RA-I MTX-Naïve Trial RA-II MTX-IR Trial RA-III cDMARD-IR Trial RA-IV MTX-IR Trial RA-V bDMARD-IR Monotherapy Monotherapy Background cDMARDs Background MTX Background cDMARDs MTX RINVOQ 15 mg % Δ (95% CI) MTX RINVOQ 15 mg % Δ (95% CI) PBO RINVOQ 15 mg % Δ (95% CI) PBO RINVOQ 15 mg % Δ (95% CI) PBO RINVOQ 15 mg % Δ (95% CI) N 314 317 216 217 221 221 651 651 169 164 Week ACR20 12 a /14 b 54 76 22 (14, 29) 41 68 26 (17, 36) 36 64 28 (19, 37) 36 71 34 (29, 39) 28 65 36 (26, 46) 24 c /26 d 59 79 20 (13, 27) 36 67 32 (27, 37) ACR50 12 a /14 b 28 52 24 (16, 31) 15 42 27 (18, 35) 15 38 23 (15, 31) 15 45 30 (26, 35) 12 34 22 (14, 31) 24 c /26 d 33 60 27 (19, 34) 21 54 33 (28, 38) ACR70 12 a /14 b 14 32 18 (12, 25) 3 23 20 (14, 26) 6 21 15 (9, 21) 5 25 20 (16, 24) 7 12 5 (-1, 11) 24 c /26 d 18 44 26 (19, 33) 10 35 25 (21, 29) DAS28-CRP <2.6 12 a /14 b 14 36 22 (15, 28) 8 28 20 (13, 27) 10 31 21 (14, 28) 6 29 23 (19, 27) 9 29 19 (11, 27) 24 c /26 d 18 48 30 (23, 37) 9 41 32 (27, 36) Abbreviations: ACR20 (or 50 or 70) = American College of Rheumatology ≥20% (or ≥50% or ≥70%) improvement; bDMARD = biologic disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug; CRP = c-reactive protein; DAS28 = Disease Activity Score 28 joints; cDMARDs = conventional disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs; MTX = methotrexate; PBO = placebo; IR = inadequate responder Patients who discontinued randomized treatment, or had cross-over between randomized treatments, or were missing data at week of evaluation were imputed as non-responders in the analyses. a Trial RA-I, Trial RA-III, Trial RA-IV, Trial RA-V b Trial RA-II c Trial RA-I d Trial RA-IV Table 14: Components of ACR Response at Primary Efficacy Timepoint a Trial RA-I MTX-Naïve Trial RA-II b MTX-IR Trial RA-III cDMARD-IR Trial RA-IV MTX-IR Trial RA-V bDMARD-IR Monotherapy Monotherapy Background cDMARDs Background MTX Background cDMARDs MTX RINVOQ 15 mg MTX RINVOQ 15 mg PBO RINVOQ 15 mg PBO RINVOQ 15 mg PBO RINVOQ 15 mg N 314 317 216 217 221 221 651 651 169 164 Number of tender joints (0-68) Baseline 26 (16) 25 (14) 25 (16) 24 (15) 25 (15) 25 (14) 26 (14) 26 (15) 28 (15) 28 (16) Week 12/14 13 (15) 9 (12) 15 (16) 10 (13) 16 (17) 12 (14) 16 (15) 10 (13) 18 (17) 11 (14) Number of swollen joints (0-66) Baseline 17 (11) 17 (10) 17 (12) 16 (11) 15 (9) 16 (10) 16 (9) 17 (10) 16 (10) 17 (11) Week 12/14 6 (8) 5 (7) 9 (11) 6 (9) 9 (10) 7 (10) 9 (9) 5 (7) 9 (10) 6 (8) Pain c Baseline 66 (21) 68 (21) 63 (21) 62 (23) 62 (21) 64 (19) 65 (21) 66 (21) 69 (21) 68 (20) Week 12/14 41 (25) 31 (25) 49 (25) 36 (27) 51 (26) 33 (24) 49 (25) 33 (24) 55 (28) 41 (28) Patient global assessment c Baseline 66 (21) 67 (22) 60 (22) 62 (22) 60 (20) 63 (22) 64 (21) 64 (22) 66 (23) 67 (20) Week 12/14 42 (25) 31 (24) 48 (26) 37 (27) 50 (26) 32 (24) 48 (24) 33 (24) 54 (28) 40 (26) Disability Index (HAQ-DI) d Baseline 1.60 (0.67) 1.60 (0.67) 1.47 (0.66) 1.47 (0.66) 1.42 (0.63) 1.48 (0.61) 1.61 (0.61) 1.63 (0.64) 1.56 (0.60) 1.67 (0.64) Week 12/14 1.08 (0.72) 0.76 (0.69) 1.19 (0.69) 0.86 (0.67) 1.13 (0.70) 0.85 (0.66) 1.28 (0.67) 0.98 (0.68) 1.33 (0.66) 1.24 (0.77) Physician global assessment c Baseline 69 (16) 67 (17) 62 (17) 66 (18) 64 (18) 64 (16) 66 (18) 66 (17) 67 (17) 69 (17) Week 12/14 32 (22) 22 (19) 37 (24) 26 (21) 41 (24) 26 (21) 41 (25) 27 (21) 39 (25) 29 (22) CRP (mg/L) Baseline 21.2 (22.1) 23.0 (27.4) 14.5 (17.3) 14.0 (16.5) 12.6 (14.0) 16.6 (19.2) 18.0 (21.5) 17.9 (22.5) 16.3 (21.1) 16.3 (18.6) Week 12/14 10.9 (14.9) 4.2 (8.8) 12.8 (21.4) 3.7 (7.8) 13.1 (15.5) 4.6 (9.6) 16.2 (19.8) 5.5 (10.9) 13.9 (17.3) 5.0 (14.0) Abbreviations: ACR = American College of Rheumatology; bDMARD = biologic disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug; CRP = c-reactive protein; cDMARDs = conventional disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs; HAQ-DI = Health Assessment Questionnaire Disability Index; IR = inadequate responder; MTX = methotrexate; PBO = placebo a Data shown are mean (standard deviation). b Primary efficacy timepoint is at Week 14. c Visual analog scale: 0 = best, 100 = worst. d Health Assessment Questionnaire-Disability Index: 0=best, 3=worst; 20 questions; 8 categories: dressing and grooming, arising, eating, walking, hygiene, reach, grip, and activities. Figure 1. Percent of Patients Achieving ACR20 in Trial RA-IV Abbreviations: ACR20 = American College of Rheumatology ≥20% improvement; MTX = methotrexate Patients who discontinued randomized treatment, or were missing ACR20 results, or were lost-to-follow-up or withdrawn from the trial were imputed as non-responders. In RA-I and RA-IV, a higher proportion of patients treated with RINVOQ 15 mg alone or in combination with MTX, achieved DAS28-CRP < 2.6 compared to MTX or placebo at the primary efficacy timepoint ( Table 15 ). Table 15: Proportion of Patients with DAS28-CRP Less Than 2.6 with Number of Residual Active Joints at Primary Efficacy Timepoint Trial RA-I MTX- naïve Monotherapy DAS28-CRP Less Than 2.6 MTX N = 314 RINVOQ 15 mg N = 317 Proportion of responders at Week 12 (n) 14% (43) 36% (113) Of responders, proportion with 0 active joints (n) 51% (22) 45% (51) Of responders, proportion with 1 active joint (n) 35% (15) 23% (26) Of responders, proportion with 2 active joints (n) 9% (4) 17% (19) Of responders, proportion with 3 or more active joints (n) 5% (2) 15% (17) Trial RA-IV MTX-IR Background MTX DAS28-CRP Less Than 2.6 PBO N = 651 RINVOQ 15 mg N = 651 Proportion of responders at Week 12 (n) 6% (40) 29% (187) Of responders, proportion with 0 active joints (n) 60% (24) 48% (89) Of responders, proportion with 1 active joint (n) 20% (8) 23% (43) Of responders, proportion with 2 active joints (n) 15% (6) 13% (25) Of responders, proportion with 3 or more active joints (n) 5% (2) 16% (30) Abbreviations: CRP = c-reactive protein; DAS28 = Disease Activity Score 28 joints; MTX = methotrexate; PBO = placebo; IR = inadequate responder Radiographic R esponse Inhibition of progression of structural joint damage was assessed using the modified Total Sharp Score (mTSS) and its components, the erosion score and joint space narrowing score, at Week 26 in Trial RA-IV and Week 24 in Trial RA-I. The proportion of patients with no radiographic progression (mTSS change from baseline ≤ 0) was also assessed. In Trial RA-IV, treatment with R
[truncated]

## How supplied
16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied RINVOQ extended-release tablets are supplied as: 15 mg: purple, biconvex oblong, with dimensions of 14 x 8 mm, and debossed with ‘a15’ on one side. 30 tablets in a bottle; NDC: 0074-2306-30 30 mg: red, biconvex oblong, with dimensions of 14 x 8 mm, and debossed with ‘a30’ on one side. 30 tablets in a bottle; NDC: 0074-2310-30 45 mg: yellow to mottled yellow, biconvex oblong, with dimensions of 14 x 8 mm, and debossed with ‘a45’ on one side. 28 tablets in a bottle; NDC: 0074-1043-28 RINVOQ LQ oral solution is supplied as: A 1 mg/mL oral solution in HDPE bottles with a child-resistant cap. Each bottle contains a labeled volume of 180 mL of clear, colorless to light yellow solution. The bottle is packaged in a carton with one press-in bottle adapter and one 10 mL oral dosing syringe; NDC: 0074-2320-01 Storage and Handling RINVOQ extended-release tablets Store at 2˚C to 25˚C (36˚F to 77˚F). Store in the original bottle in order to protect from moisture. RINVOQ LQ oral solution Store between 2°C to 30°C (36°F to 86°F). Discard remaining oral solution 60 days after opening the bottle.

## Information for patients
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient and caregiver to read the FDA-approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide and Instructions for Use ). Serious Infections Inform patients that they may be more likely to develop infections when taking RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ. Instruct patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately during treatment if they develop any signs or symptoms of an infection [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] . Advise patients that the risk of herpes zoster is increased in patients taking RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ and in some cases can be serious [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Malignancies Inform patients that RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ may increase their risk of certain cancers and that periodic skin examinations should be performed while using RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ. Advise patients that exposure to sunlight and UV light should be limited by wearing protective clothing and using a broad-spectrum sunscreen [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events Inform patients that RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ may increase their risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) including myocardial infarction, stroke, and cardiovascular death. Instruct all patients, especially current or past smokers or patients with other cardiovascular risk factors, to be alert for the development of signs and symptoms of cardiovascular events [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. Thrombosis Inform patients that events of deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism have been reported in clinical trials with RINVOQ. Instruct patients to seek immediate medical attention if they develop any signs or symptoms of a DVT or PE [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients to discontinue RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ and seek immediate medical attention if they develop any signs and symptoms of allergic reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. Gastrointestinal Perforations Inform patients that gastrointestinal perforations have been reported in clinical trials with RINVOQ and that risk factors include the use of NSAIDs, corticosteroids, or history of diverticulitis. Instruct patients to seek medical care immediately if they experience new onset of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea, or vomiting [see Warnings and P recautions ( 5.7 )] . Hypoglycemia in Patients with Diabetes Consider advising patients with diabetes to increase monitoring of blood glucose since hypoglycemia, including severe hypoglycemia, has been reported after starting RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ. Advise patients with diabetes to notify their healthcare provider if they develop signs or symptoms of hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . Retinal Detachment Inform patients that retinal detachment has been reported in clinical trials with RINVOQ. Advise patients to immediately inform their healthcare provider if they develop any sudden changes in vision while receiving RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . Laboratory Abnormalities Inform patients that RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ may affect certain lab tests, and that blood tests are required before and during RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ treatment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] . Vaccinations Advise patients to avoid use of live vaccines with RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ. Instruct patients to inform their healthcare practitioner that they are taking RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ prior to a potential vaccination [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )] . Embryo-Fetal Toxicity Advise pregnant women and females of reproductive potential that exposure to RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ during pregnancy may result in fetal harm. Advise females to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 )] . Advise females of reproductive potential that effective contraception should be used during treatment and for 4 weeks following the final dose of RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 )] . Advise women exposed to RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ during pregnancy that there is a pregnancy surveillance program that monitors pregnancy outcomes [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 )] . Lactation Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ and for 6 days after the last dose [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.2 )] . Administration Advise patients that RINVOQ tablets are not substitutable with RINVOQ LQ [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )] . Advise patients not to chew, crush, or split RINVOQ tablets [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )] . For RINVOQ LQ, instruct patients and caregivers to read and follow the Instructions for Use for proper preparation, administration, storage, and disposal [See Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )]. Advise patients to avoid food or drink containing grapefruit during treatment with RINVOQ/RINVOQ LQ [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Medication Residue in Stool Instruct patients to notify their healthcare provider if they repeatedly notice medication residue (e.g., intact RINVOQ tablet or fragments) in stool or ostomy output [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]. Manufactured by: AbbVie Inc., North Chicago, IL 60064, USA RINVOQ ® is a registered trademark of AbbVie Biotechnology Ltd. ©2019-2026 AbbVie Inc. 20101617 R1 June 2026

