spl_product_data_elements:
  Whitening YAYASHI WHITENING LYSOZYME HYDRATED SILICA HYDRATED SILICA GLYCERIN GLYCERIN SODIUM PHYTATE XANTHAN GUM XANTHAN GUM SORBITOL WATER SACCHARIN SODIUM SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE
purpose:
  Emphasize that the toothpaste uses mild whitening ingredients that do not damage tooth enamel, is suitable for daily use, and helps users easily achieve teeth whitening effects
warnings:
  Warnings: For external use only: Do not ingest the toothpaste. If swallowed, seek medical help immediately. Avoid use on damaged or sensitive gums: If you have sensitive teeth, gums, or any oral health concerns, consult with a dentist before using this product. Possible sensitivity: Some individuals may experience mild tooth or gum sensitivity with whitening products. Discontinue use if sensitivity persists or worsens, and consult a dentist if necessary. Keep out of reach of children: This product is intended for adults and should be stored out of reach of children. Children under 12 years of age should only use this product with the guidance of a dentist. Avoid contact with eyes: In case of accidental contact with eyes, rinse thoroughly with water. Seek medical attention if irritation continues. Example: "For external use only. Do not swallow. Consult a dentist if you have sensitive teeth or gums. Discontinue use if sensitivity occurs. Keep out of reach of children and avoid contact with eyes."
indications_and_usage:
  Indications: This product is intended for individuals looking to remove surface stains and achieve a natural whitening effect. Suitable for adults experiencing mild tooth discoloration caused by coffee, tea, red wine, or smoking. Not recommended for individuals with sensitive teeth or gums. Please consult a dentist before use if you have dental concerns. Usage: Use twice daily, morning and night. Apply a pea-sized amount of toothpaste to your toothbrush. Gently brush teeth for at least two minutes, ensuring the toothpaste covers all tooth surfaces. Rinse thoroughly after brushing; avoid swallowing. For optimal whitening results, continue use for at least two weeks, and limit consumption of stain-causing foods and drinks.
stop_use:
  Stop Use: If irritation or discomfort occurs: Discontinue use immediately if you experience persistent irritation, discomfort, or unusual sensitivity in teeth or gums. If symptoms worsen: Stop using the product if symptoms such as pain, inflammation, or tooth sensitivity intensify. Consult a dentist before resuming use. If allergic reaction develops: Discontinue use if you notice signs of an allergic reaction, such as redness, itching, or swelling in the mouth or on the gums.
keep_out_of_reach_of_children:
  Here’s how the KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN section could be presented for a whitening toothpaste: Keep Out of Reach of Children: This product is intended for adult use only. Do not allow children to use without supervision or the guidance of a dentist. In case of accidental ingestion by a child, seek immediate medical assistance or contact a Poison Control Center. Example: "Keep out of reach of children. For adult use only. If swallowed by a child, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately."
dosage_and_administration:
  Here’s how the DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION section for a whitening toothpaste could be structured: Dosage & Administration: Recommended Dosage: Use a pea-sized amount of toothpaste per brushing session. Frequency of Use: Brush teeth twice daily, in the morning and at night, or as directed by a dentist. Administration Instructions: Apply a pea-sized amount of toothpaste to a toothbrush. Brush teeth gently for at least two minutes, covering all tooth surfaces. Rinse thoroughly after brushing and avoid swallowing the product. Duration for Optimal Results: For best whitening results, use consistently for a minimum of two weeks. Consult a dentist if additional whitening is desired or if you plan to use for an extended period. Example: "Apply a pea-sized amount and brush twice daily for two minutes, ensuring full coverage. Rinse thoroughly after use. For optimal whitening, continue use for at least two weeks."
  HYDRATED SILICA XANTHAN GUM GLYCERIN
inactive_ingredient:
  LYSOZYME SODIUM PHYTATE SORBITOL WATER SACCHARIN SODIUM SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE
recent_major_changes:
  
package_label_principal_display_panel:
  NDC WHITENING TOOTHPASTEI 100g 20241101
set_id:
  26bc06e3-cc87-c67e-e063-6394a90abb8e
id:
  26bc06e3-cc88-c67e-e063-6394a90abb8e
effective_time:
  20241112
version:
  1
openfda:
