Drug: Prilosec
OpenFDA brand names: Prilosec
Drug ID: prilosec
Generic name: OMEPRAZOLE MAGNESIUM
Manufacturer: Covis Pharma US, Inc
NDC: 70515-610, 70515-625
Application number: NDA022056
RxCUI: 797058, 797061, 797063, 797065
Route: ORAL
Pharmacologic class: unknown
Source: openFDA drug label

## Indications and usage
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE PRILOSEC is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated for the: • Treatment of active duodenal ulcer in adults ( 1.1 ) • Eradication of Helicobacter pylori to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence in adults ( 1.2 ) • Treatment of active benign gastric ulcer in adults ( 1.3 ) • Treatment of symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) in patients 1 year of age and older ( 1.4 ) • Treatment of erosive esophagitis (EE) due to acid-mediated GERD in patients 1 month of age and older ( 1.5 ) • Maintenance of healing of EE due to acid-mediated GERD in patients 1 year of age and older ( 1.6 ) • Pathologic hypersecretory conditions in adults ( 1.7 ) 1.1 Treatment of Active Duodenal Ulcer PRILOSEC is indicated for short-term treatment of active duodenal ulcer in adults. Most patients heal within four weeks. Some patients may require an additional four weeks of therapy. 1.2 Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Eradication of H. pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence. Triple Therapy PRILOSEC in combination with clarithromycin and amoxicillin, is indicated for treatment of patients with H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease (active or up to 1-year history) to eradicate H. pylori in adults. Dual Therapy PRILOSEC in combination with clarithromycin is indicated for treatment of patients with H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease to eradicate H. pylori in adults. Among patients who fail therapy, PRILOSEC with clarithromycin is more likely to be associated with the development of clarithromycin resistance as compared with triple therapy. In patients who fail therapy, susceptibility testing should be done. If resistance to clarithromycin is demonstrated or susceptibility testing is not possible, alternative antimicrobial therapy should be instituted [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.4 ) and the clarithromycin prescribing information, Microbiology section ] . 1.3 Treatment of Active Benign Gastric Ulcer PRILOSEC is indicated for short-term treatment (4 to 8 weeks) of active benign gastric ulcer in adults. 1.4 Treatment of Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) PRILOSEC is indicated for the treatment of heartburn and other symptoms associated with GERD for up to 4 weeks in patients 1 year of age and older. 1.5 Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis (EE) Due to Acid-Mediated GERD Pediatric Patients 1 Year of Age to Adults PRILOSEC is indicated for the short-term treatment (4 to 8 weeks) of EE due to acid-mediated GERD that has been diagnosed by endoscopy in patients 1 year of age and older. The efficacy of PRILOSEC used for longer than 8 weeks in patients with EE has not been established. If a patient does not respond to 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 4 weeks of treatment may be given. If there is recurrence of EE or GERD symptoms (e.g., heartburn), additional 4 to 8 week courses of PRILOSEC may be considered. Pediatric Patients 1 Month to Less than 1 Year of Age PRILOSEC is indicated for the short-term treatment (up to 6 weeks) of EE due to acid-mediated GERD in pediatric patients 1 month to less than 1 year of age. 1.6 Maintenance of Healing of EE Due to Acid-Mediated GERD PRILOSEC is indicated for the maintenance healing of EE due to acid-mediated GERD in patients 1 year of age and older. Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months. 1.7 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions PRILOSEC is indicated for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions (e.g., Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, multiple endocrine adenomas and systemic mastocytosis) in adults.

## Dosage and administration
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Recommended Adult ( 2.1 ) and Pediatric Dosage ( 2.2 ) Treatment of Active Duodenal Ulcer 20 mg once daily for 4 weeks; some patients may require an additional 4 weeks ( 2.1 ) H. pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Triple Therapy: PRILOSEC Amoxicillin Clarithromycin 20 mg 1000 mg 500 mg Each drug twice daily for 10 days ( 2.1 )* Dual Therapy: PRILOSEC Clarithromycin 40 mg once daily for 14 days** 500 mg three times daily for 14 days ( 2.1 ) Active Benign Gastric Ulcer 40 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks ( 2.1 ) Symptomatic GERD 20 mg once daily for up to 4 weeks ( 2.1 ) See full prescribing information for weight based dosing in pediatric patients 1 year of age and older ( 2.2 ) EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD 20 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks ( 2.1 )*** See full prescribing information for weight based dosing in pediatric patients 1 month of age and older ( 2.2 ) Maintenance of Healing of EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD 20 mg once daily ( 2.1 )**** See full prescribing information for weight based dosing in pediatric patients 1 year of age and older ( 2.2 ) Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Starting dose is 60 mg once daily (varies with individual patient, see full prescribing information) as long as clinically indicated ( 2.1 ) * if ulcer present, continue PRILOSEC 20 mg once daily for an additional 18 days. ** if ulcer present, continue PRILOSEC 20 mg once daily for an additional 14 days. *** an additional 4 weeks of treatment may be given if no response; if recurrence additional 4 to 8 week courses may be considered. **** studied for 12 months. Reduce the dosage to 10 mg once daily for patients with hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A, B, or C) and Asian patients ( 8.6 , 8.7 ) 2.1 Recommended Adult Dosage Regimen by Indication Table 1 shows the recommended dosage of PRILOSEC in adult patients by indication. Table 1: Recommended Dosage Regimen of PRILOSEC in Adults by Indication Indication Dosage of PRILOSEC Treatment Duration Treatment of Active Duodenal Ulcer 20 mg once daily 4 weeks Most patients heal within 4 weeks; some patients may require an additional 4 weeks of therapy to achieve healing Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Triple Therapy PRILOSEC 20 mg Amoxicillin 1000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg Take all three drugs twice daily 10 days In patients with an ulcer present at the time of initiation of therapy, continue PRILOSEC 20 mg once daily for an additional 18 days for ulcer healing and symptom relief. Dual Therapy PRILOSEC 40 mg once daily Clarithromycin 500 mg three times daily 14 days In patients with an ulcer present at the time of initiation of therapy, an additional 14 days of PRILOSEC 20 mg once daily is recommended for ulcer healing and symptom relief. Active Benign Gastric Ulcer 40 mg once daily 4 to 8 weeks Treatment of Symptomatic GERD 20 mg once daily Up to 4 weeks Treatment of EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD 20 mg once daily 4 to 8 weeks The efficacy of PRILOSEC used for longer than 8 weeks in patients with EE has not been established. If a patient does not respond to 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 4 weeks of treatment may be given. If there is recurrence of EE or GERD symptoms (e.g., heartburn), additional 4 to 8 week courses of PRILOSEC may be considered. Maintenance of Healing of EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD 20 mg once daily Dosage reduction to 10 mg once daily is recommended for patients with hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A, B or C) and Asian patients when used for the maintenance of healing of EE [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 , 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 , 12.5 )]. Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months. Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Starting dose is 60 mg once daily; adjust to patient needs Daily dosages of greater than 80 mg should be administered in divided doses. Dosages up to 120 mg three times daily have been administered. As long as clinically indicated. Some patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome have been treated continuously for more than 5 years. 2.2 Recommended Pediatric Dosage Regimen by Indication Table 2 shows the recommended dosage of PRILOSEC in pediatric patients by indication. Table 2: Recommended Dosage Regimen of PRILOSEC in Pediatric Patients by Indication Indication PRILOSEC Dosage Regimen and Duration Patient Age Weight-Based Dose (mg) Regimen and Duration Treatment of Symptomatic GERD 1 to 16 years 5 to less than 10 kg: 5 mg Once daily for up to 4 weeks 10 to less than 20 kg: 10 mg 20 kg and greater: 20 mg Treatment of EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD 1 to 16 years 5 to less than 10 kg: 5 mg Once daily for 4 to 8 weeks The efficacy of PRILOSEC used for longer than 8 weeks in patients with EE has not been established. If a patient does not respond to 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 4 weeks of treatment may be given. If there is recurrence of EE or GERD symptoms (e.g., heartburn), additional 4 to 8 week courses of PRILOSEC may be considered. 10 to less than 20 kg: 10 mg 20 kg and greater: 20 mg 1 month to less than 1 year 3 to less than 5 kg: 2.5 mg Once daily up to 6 weeks 5 to less than 10 kg: 5 mg 10 kg and greater: 10 mg Maintenance of Healing of EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD 1 to 16 years 5 to less than 10 kg: 5 mg Once daily. Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months 10 to less than 20 kg: 10 mg 20 kg and greater: 20 mg 2.3 Administration Instructions • PRILOSEC is intended to be prepared in water and administered orally or via a nasogastric (NG) or gastric tube. • Take PRILOSEC before meals. • Antacids may be used concomitantly with PRILOSEC. • Missed doses: If a dose is missed, administer as soon as possible. However, if the next scheduled dose is due, do not take the missed dose, and take the next dose on time. Do not take two doses at one time to make up for a missed dose. Oral Administration in Water 1. Empty the contents of a 2.5 mg packet into a container containing 5 mL of water. 2. Empty the contents of a 10 mg packet into a container containing 15 mL of water. 3. Stir. 4. Leave 2 to 3 minutes to thicken. 5. Stir and drink within 30 minutes. 6. If any material remains after drinking, add more water, stir and drink immediately. Administration with Water via a NG or Gastric Tube (Size 6 or Larger) 1. Add 5 mL of water to a catheter tipped syringe and then add the contents of a 2.5 mg packet (or 15 mL of water for the 10 mg packet). It is important to only use a catheter tipped syringe when administering through a nasogastric tube or gastric tube. 2. Immediately shake the syringe and leave 2 to 3 minutes to thicken. 3. Shake the syringe and inject through the nasogastric or gastric tube into the stomach within 30 minutes. 4. Refill the syringe with an equal amount of water. 5. Shake and flush any remaining contents from the nasogastric or gastric tube into the stomach.

## Dosage forms and strengths
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS PRILOSEC For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension: 2.5 mg and 10 mg omeprazole in unit dose packets containing a fine yellow powder, consisting of white to brownish omeprazole magnesium granules and pale yellow inactive granules. PRILOSEC for delayed-release oral suspension: 2.5 mg and 10 mg omeprazole in unit dose packets ( 3 )

## Contraindications
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • PRILOSEC is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to substituted benzimidazoles or to any component of the formulation. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6 )] . • Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including PRILOSEC, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. • For information about contraindications of antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated in combination with PRILOSEC, refer to the CONTRAINDICATIONS section of their package inserts. • Patients with known hypersensitivity to substituted benzimidazoles or any component of the formulation. ( 4 ) • Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products. ( 4 , 7 ) • Refer to the Contraindications section of the prescribing information for clarithromycin and amoxicillin, when administered in combination with PRILOSEC. ( 4 )

## Warnings and cautions
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Gastric Malignancy : In adults, symptomatic response does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Consider additional follow-up and diagnostic testing. ( 5.1 ) • Acute Tubulointerstital Nephritis : Discontinue treatment and evaluate patients. ( 5.2 ) • Clostridium difficile -Associated Diarrhea : PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk. ( 5.3 ) • Bone Fracture : Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist or spine. ( 5.4 ) • Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions : Discontinue at the first signs or symptoms of severe cutaneous adverse reactions or other signs of hypersensitivity and consider further evaluation. ( 5.5 ) • Cutaneous and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus : Mostly cutaneous; new onset or exacerbation of existing disease; discontinue PRILOSEC and refer to specialist for evaluation. ( 5.6 ) • Interaction with Clopidogrel : Avoid concomitant use of PRILOSEC. ( 5.7 , 7 ) • Cyanocobalamin (Vitamin B-12) Deficiency : Daily long-term use (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption or a deficiency of cyanocobalamin. ( 5.8 ) • Hypomagnesemia and Mineral Metabolism : Reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs. ( 5.9 ) • Interaction with St. John’s Wort or Rifampin : Avoid concomitant use of PRILOSEC. ( 5.10 , 7 ) • Interactions with Diagnostic Investigations for Neuroendocrine Tumors : Increased Chromogranin A (CgA) levels may interfere with diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors; temporarily stop PRILOSEC at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels. ( 5.11 , 7 ) • Interaction with Methotrexate : Concomitant use with PPIs may elevate and/or prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to toxicity. With high dose methotrexate administration, consider a temporary withdrawal of PRILOSEC. ( 5.12 , 7 ) • Fundic Gland Polyps : Risk increases with long-term use, especially beyond one year. Use the shortest duration of therapy. ( 5.13 ) 5.1 Presence of Gastric Malignancy In adults, symptomatic response to therapy with PRILOSEC does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Consider additional follow-up and diagnostic testing in adult patients who have a suboptimal response or an early symptomatic relapse after completing treatment with a PPI. In older patients, also consider an endoscopy. 5.2 Acute Tubulointerstitial Nephritis Acute tubulointerstitial nephritis (TIN) has been observed in patients taking PPIs and may occur at any point during PPI therapy. Patients may present with varying signs and symptoms from symptomatic hypersensitivity reactions to non-specific symptoms of decreased renal function (e.g., malaise, nausea, anorexia). In reported case series, some patients were diagnosed on biopsy and in the absence of extra-renal manifestations (e.g., fever, rash or arthralgia). Discontinue PRILOSEC and evaluate patients with suspected acute TIN [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . 5.3 Clostridium difficile -Associated Diarrhea Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like PRILOSEC may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile -associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Clostridium difficile -associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents. For more information specific to antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated for use in combination with PRILOSEC, refer to Warnings and Precautions sections of the corresponding prescribing information. 5.4 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies suggest that proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6.3 )] . 5.5 Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions Severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) have been reported in association with the use of PPIs [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . Discontinue PRILOSEC at the first signs or symptoms of severe cutaneous adverse reactions or other signs of hypersensitivity and consider further evaluation. 5.6 Cutaneous and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Cutaneous lupus erythematosus (CLE) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) have been reported in patients taking PPIs, including omeprazole. These events have occurred as both new onset and an exacerbation of existing autoimmune disease. The majority of PPI-induced lupus erythematosus cases were CLE. The most common form of CLE reported in patients treated with PPIs was subacute CLE (SCLE) and occurred within weeks to years after continuous drug therapy in patients ranging from infants to the elderly. Generally, histological findings were observed without organ involvement. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is less commonly reported than CLE in patients receiving PPIs. PPI associated SLE is usually milder than non-drug induced SLE. Onset of SLE typically occurred within days to years after initiating treatment primarily in patients ranging from young adults to the elderly. The majority of patients presented with rash; however, arthralgia and cytopenia were also reported. Avoid administration of PPIs for longer than medically indicated. If signs or symptoms consistent with CLE or SLE are noted in patients receiving PRILOSEC, discontinue the drug and refer the patient to the appropriate specialist for evaluation. Most patients improve with discontinuation of the PPI alone in 4 to 12 weeks. Serological testing (e.g., ANA) may be positive and elevated serological test results may take longer to resolve than clinical manifestations. 5.7 Interaction with Clopidogrel Avoid concomitant use of PRILOSEC with clopidogrel. Clopidogrel is a prodrug. Inhibition of platelet aggregation by clopidogrel is entirely due to an active metabolite. The metabolism of clopidogrel to its active metabolite can be impaired by use with concomitant medications, such as omeprazole, that inhibit CYP2C19 activity. Concomitant use of clopidogrel with 80 mg omeprazole reduces the pharmacological activity of clopidogrel, even when administered 12 hours apart. When using PRILOSEC, consider alternative anti-platelet therapy [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 5.8 Cyanocobalamin (Vitamin B-12) Deficiency Daily treatment with any acid-suppressing medications over a long period of time (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption of cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) caused by hypo- or achlorhydria. Rare reports of cyanocobalamin deficiency occurring with acid-suppressing therapy have been reported in the literature. This diagnosis should be considered if clinical symptoms consistent with cyanocobalamin deficiency are observed in patients treated with PRILOSEC. 5.9 Hypomagnesemia and Mineral Metabolism Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. Hypomagnesemia may lead to hypocalcemia and/or hypokalemia and may exacerbate underlying hypocalcemia in at-risk patients. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), health care professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . Consider monitoring magnesium and calcium levels prior to initiation of PRILOSEC and periodically while on treatment in patients with a preexisting risk of hypocalcemia (e.g., hypoparathyroidism) Supplement with magnesium and/or calcium as necessary. If hypocalcemia is refractory to treatment, consider discontinuing the PPI. 5.10 Interaction with St. John’s Wort or Rifampin Drugs which induce CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 (such as St. John’s Wort or rifampin) can substantially decrease omeprazole concentrations [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Avoid concomitant use of PRILOSEC with St. John’s Wort or rifampin. 5.11 Interactions with Diagnostic Investigations for Neuroendocrine Tumors Serum chromogranin A (CgA) levels increase secondary to drug-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors. Healthcare providers should temporarily stop PRILOSEC treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g., for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . 5.12 Interaction with Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . 5.13 Fundic Gland Polyps PPI use is associated with an increased risk of fundic gland polyps that increases with long-term use, especially beyond one year. Most PPI users who developed fundic gland polyps were asymptomatic and fundic gland polyps were identified incidentally on endoscopy. Use the shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated.

## Adverse reactions
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in labeling: • Acute Tubulointerstitial Nephritis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] • Clostridium difficile -Associated Diarrhea [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] • Bone Fracture [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] • Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] • Cutaneous and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] • Cyanocobalamin (Vitamin B-12) Deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] • Hypomagnesemia and Mineral Metabolism [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] • Fundic Gland Polyps [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 )] Adults: Most common adverse reactions in adults (incidence ≥2%) are • Headache, abdominal pain, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, and flatulence. ( 6 ) Pediatric patients (1 to 16 years of age): • Safety profile similar to that in adults, except that respiratory system events and fever were the most frequently reported reactions in pediatric studies. ( 8.4 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Covis Pharma at 1-877-411-2510 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience with PRILOSEC Monotherapy Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety data described below reflect exposure to omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules in 3096 patients from worldwide clinical trials (465 patients from US studies and 2631 patients from international studies). Indications clinically studied in US trials included duodenal ulcer, resistant ulcer, and Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. The international clinical trials were double blind and open-label in design. The most common adverse reactions reported (i.e., with an incidence rate ≥2%) from PRILOSEC-treated patients enrolled in these studies included headache (7%), abdominal pain (5%), nausea (4%), diarrhea (4%), vomiting (3%), and flatulence (3%). Additional adverse reactions that were reported with an incidence ≥1% included acid regurgitation (2%), upper respiratory infection (2%), constipation (2%), dizziness (2%), rash (2%), asthenia (1%), back pain (1%), and cough (1%). The clinical trial safety profile in patients greater than 65 years of age was similar to that in patients 65 years of age or less. The clinical trial safety profile in pediatric patients who received omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules was similar to that in adult patients. Unique to the pediatric population, however, adverse reactions of the respiratory system were frequently reported in the 1 month to <1 year age group, the 1 to <2 year age group, and the 2 to 16 year age group (42%, 75%, and 19%, respectively). In addition, otitis media was frequently reported in the 1 month to <1 year age group (22%), fever was frequently reported in the 1 to <2 year age group (33% ), and accidental injuries were frequently reported in the 2 to 16 year age group (4%) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . 6.2 Clinical Trials Experience with PRILOSEC in Combination Therapy for H. pylori Eradication In clinical trials using either dual therapy with omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules and clarithromycin, or triple therapy with omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, clarithromycin, and amoxicillin, no adverse reactions unique to these drug combinations were observed. Adverse reactions observed were limited to those previously reported with omeprazole, clarithromycin, or amoxicillin alone. Dual Therapy (omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules/clarithromycin) Adverse reactions observed in controlled clinical trials using combination therapy with omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules and clarithromycin (n = 346) that differed from those previously described for omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules alone were taste perversion (15%), tongue discoloration (2%), rhinitis (2%), pharyngitis (1%), and flu-syndrome (1%). (For more information on clarithromycin, refer to the clarithromycin prescribing information, Adverse Reactions section.) Triple Therapy (omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules/clarithromycin/amoxicillin) The most frequent adverse reactions observed in clinical trials using combination therapy with omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, clarithromycin, and amoxicillin (n = 274) were diarrhea (14%), taste perversion (10%), and headache (7%). None of these occurred at a higher frequency than that reported by patients taking antimicrobial agents alone. (For more information on clarithromycin or amoxicillin, refer to the respective prescribing information, Adverse Reactions sections.) 6.3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of omeprazole. Because these reactions are voluntarily reported from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their actual frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body As a Whole: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, interstitial nephritis, urticaria, (see also Skin below); fever; pain; fatigue; malaise; systemic lupus erythematosus Cardiovascular: Chest pain or angina, tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitations, elevated blood pressure, peripheral edema Endocrine: Gynecomastia Gastrointestinal: Pancreatitis (some fatal), anorexia, irritable colon, fecal discoloration, esophageal candidiasis, mucosal atrophy of the tongue, stomatitis, abdominal swelling, dry mouth, microscopic colitis, fundic gland polyps. Gastroduodenal carcinoids have been reported in patients with ZE syndrome on long-term treatment with omeprazole. This finding is believed to be a manifestation of the underlying condition, which is known to be associated with such tumors. Hepatic: Liver disease including hepatic failure (some fatal), liver necrosis (some fatal), hepatic encephalopathy hepatocellular disease, cholestatic disease, mixed hepatitis, jaundice, and elevations of liver function tests [ALT, AST, GGT, alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin] Infections and Infestations: Clostridium difficile -associated diarrhea Metabolism and Nutritional disorders: Hypomagnesemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia [Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] , hyponatremia, hypoglycemia, weight gain Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness, myalgia, muscle cramps, joint pain, leg pain, bone fracture Nervous System/Psychiatric: Psychiatric and sleep disturbances including depression, agitation, aggression, hallucinations, confusion, insomnia, nervousness, apathy, somnolence, anxiety, and dream abnormalities; tremors, paresthesia; vertigo Respiratory: Epistaxis, pharyngeal pain Skin: Severe generalized skin reactions including toxic SJS/TEN (some fatal), DRESS, AGEP, cutaneous lupus erythematosus and erythema multiforme; photosensitivity; urticaria; rash; skin inflammation; pruritus; petechiae; purpura; alopecia; dry skin; hyperhidrosis Special Senses: Tinnitus, taste perversion Ocular: Optic atrophy, anterior ischemic optic neuropathy, optic neuritis, dry eye syndrome, ocular irritation, blurred vision, double vision Urogenital: Interstitial nephritis, hematuria, proteinuria, elevated serum creatinine, microscopic pyuria, urinary tract infection, glycosuria, urinary frequency, testicular pain, erectile dysfunction Hematologic: Agranulocytosis (some fatal), hemolytic anemia, pancytopenia, neutropenia, anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, leukocytosis

## Drug interactions
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 and Table 4 include drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with omeprazole and instructions for preventing or managing them. Consult the labeling of concomitantly used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with PPIs. Table 3: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with Omeprazole and Interaction with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable. The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known. • Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine, atazanavir and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with omeprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. • Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with omeprazole may increase toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. • There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with omeprazole. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products : Concomitant use with PRILOSEC is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Atazanavir : Avoid concomitant use with PRILOSEC. See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information. Nelfinavir : Avoid concomitant use with PRILOSEC. See prescribing information for nelfinavir. Saquinavir : See the prescribing information for saquinavir for monitoring of potential saquinavir-related toxicities. Other antiretrovirals : See prescribing information for specific antiretroviral drugs. Warfarin Clinical Impact: Increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs, including omeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Intervention: Monitor INR and prothrombin time and adjust the dose of warfarin, if needed, to maintain target INR range. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of omeprazole with methotrexate (primarily at high dose) may elevate and prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )]. Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of PRILOSEC may be considered in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. CYP2C19 Substrates (e.g., clopidogrel, citalopram, cilostazol, phenytoin, diazepam) Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of omeprazole 80 mg results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. There are no adequate combination studies of a lower dose of omeprazole or a higher dose of clopidogrel in comparison with the approved dose of clopidogrel. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use with PRILOSEC. Consider use of alternative anti-platelet therapy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . Citalopram Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of citalopram leading to an increased risk of QT prolongation [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: Limit the dose of citalopram to a maximum of 20 mg per day. See prescribing information for citalopram. Cilostazol Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of one of the active metabolites of cilostazol (3,4-dihydro-cilostazol) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily. See prescribing information for cilostazol. Phenytoin Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of phenytoin. Intervention: Monitor phenytoin serum concentrations. Dose adjustment may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. See prescribing information for phenytoin. Diazepam Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of diazepam [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: Monitor patients for increased sedation and reduce the dose of diazepam as needed. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of digoxin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: Monitor digoxin concentrations. Dose adjustment may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. See digoxin prescribing information. Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, mycophenolate mofetil, ketoconazole/itraconazole) Clinical Impact: Omeprazole can reduce the absorption of other drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity. Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of omeprazole in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving PRILOSEC and MMF. Use PRILOSEC with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption. Combination Therapy with Clarithromycin and Amoxicillin Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions, including potentially fatal arrhythmias, and are contraindicated. Amoxicillin also has drug interactions. Intervention: See Contraindications , Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin. See Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin. Tacrolimus Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of tacrolimus, especially in transplant patients who are intermediate or poor metabolizers of CYP2C19. Intervention: Monitor tacrolimus whole blood concentrations. Dose adjustment may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. See prescribing information for tacrolimus. Interactions with Investigations of Neuroendocrine Tumors Clinical Impact: Serum chromogranin A (CgA) levels increase secondary to PPI-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . Intervention: Temporarily stop PRILOSEC treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g., for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary. Interaction with Secretin Stimulation Test Clinical Impact: Hyper-response in gastrin secretion in response to secretin stimulation test, falsely suggesting gastrinoma. Intervention: Temporarily stop PRILOSEC treatment at least 14 days before assessing to allow gastrin levels to return to baseline [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs. Intervention: An alternative confirmatory method should be considered to verify positive results. Other Clinical Impact: There have been clinical reports of interactions with other drugs metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system (e.g., cyclosporine, disulfiram). Intervention: Monitor patients to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of these other drugs when taken concomitantly with PRILOSEC. Table 4: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Omeprazole When Co-Administered with Other Drugs CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Decreased exposure of omeprazole when used concomitantly with strong inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: St. John’s Wort, rifampin : Avoid concomitant use with PRILOSEC [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] . Ritonavir-containing products : see prescribing information for specific drugs. CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of omeprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: Voriconazole : Dose adjustment of PRILOSEC is not normally required. However, in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, who may require higher doses, dose adjustment may be considered. See prescribing information for voriconazole. See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions. ( 7 )

## Use in specific populations
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate and well-controlled studies with omeprazole in pregnant women. Available epidemiologic data fail to demonstrate an increased risk of major congenital malformations or other adverse pregnancy outcomes with first trimester omeprazole use. Reproduction studies in rats and rabbits resulted in dose-dependent embryo-lethality at omeprazole doses that were approximately 3.4 to 34 times an oral human dose of 40 mg (based on a body surface area for a 60 kg person). Teratogenicity was not observed in animal reproduction studies with administration of oral esomeprazole (an enantiomer of omeprazole) magnesium in rats and rabbits during organogenesis with doses about 68 times and 42 times, respectively, an oral human dose of 40 mg esomeprazole or 40 mg omeprazole (based on body surface area for a 60 kg person). Changes in bone morphology were observed in offspring of rats dosed through most of pregnancy and lactation at doses equal to or greater than approximately 34 times an oral human dose of 40 mg esomeprazole or 40 mg omeprazole. When maternal administration was confined to gestation only, there were no effects on bone physeal morphology in the offspring at any age [see Data ] . The estimated background risks of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population are unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss or other adverse outcomes. In the US general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2% to 4% and 15% to 20%, respectively. Data Human Data Four published epidemiological studies compared the frequency of congenital abnormalities among infants born to women who used omeprazole during pregnancy with the frequency of abnormalities among infants of women exposed to H 2 -receptor antagonists or other controls. A population-based retrospective cohort epidemiological study from the Swedish Medical Birth Registry, covering approximately 99% of pregnancies, from 1995 to 99, reported on 955 infants (824 exposed during the first trimester with 39 of these exposed beyond first trimester, and 131 exposed after the first trimester) whose mothers used omeprazole during pregnancy. The number of infants exposed in utero to omeprazole that had any malformation, low birth weight, low Apgar score, or hospitalization was similar to the number observed in this population. The number of infants born with ventricular septal defects and the number of stillborn infants was slightly higher in the omeprazole-exposed infants than the expected number in this population. A population-based retrospective cohort study covering all live births in Denmark from 1996 to 2009, reported on 1,800 live births whose mothers used omeprazole during the first trimester of pregnancy and 837,317 live births whose mothers did not use any proton pump inhibitor. The overall rate of birth defects in infants born to mothers with first trimester exposure to omeprazole was 2.9% and 2.6% in infants born to mothers not exposed to any proton pump inhibitor during the first trimester. A retrospective cohort study reported on 689 pregnant women exposed to either H 2 -blockers or omeprazole in the first trimester (134 exposed to omeprazole) and 1,572 pregnant women unexposed to either during the first trimester. The overall malformation rate in offspring born to mothers with first trimester exposure to omeprazole, an H 2 -blocker, or were unexposed was 3.6%, 5.5%, and 4.1% respectively. A small prospective observational cohort study followed 113 women exposed to omeprazole during pregnancy (89% with first trimester exposures). The reported rate of major congenital malformations was 4% in the omeprazole group, 2% in controls exposed to non-teratogens, and 2.8% in disease-paired controls. Rates of spontaneous and elective abortions, preterm deliveries, gestational age at delivery, and mean birth weight were similar among the groups. Several studies have reported no apparent adverse short-term effects on the infant when single dose oral or intravenous omeprazole was administered to over 200 pregnant women as premedication for cesarean section under general anesthesia. Animal Data Omeprazole Reproductive studies conducted with omeprazole in rats at oral doses up to 138 mg/kg/day (about 34 times an oral human dose of 40 mg on a body surface area basis) and in rabbits at doses up to 69.1 mg/kg/day (about 34 times an oral human dose of 40 mg on a body surface area basis) during organogenesis did not disclose any evidence for a teratogenic potential of omeprazole. In rabbits, omeprazole in a dose range of 6.9 to 69.1 mg/kg/day (about 3.4 to 34 times an oral human dose of 40 mg on a body surface area basis) administered during organogenesis produced dose-related increases in embryo-lethality, fetal resorptions, and pregnancy disruptions. In rats, dose-related embryo/fetal toxicity and postnatal developmental toxicity were observed in offspring resulting from parents treated with omeprazole at 13.8 to 138.0 mg/kg/day (about 3.4 to 34 times an oral human doses of 40 mg on a body surface area basis), administered prior to mating through the lactation period. Esomeprazole The data described below was generated from studies using esomeprazole, an enantiomer of omeprazole. The animal to human dose multiples are based on the assumption of equal systemic exposure to esomeprazole in humans following oral administration of either 40 mg esomeprazole or 40 mg omeprazole. No effects on embryo-fetal development were observed in reproduction studies with esomeprazole magnesium in rats at oral doses up to 280 mg/kg/day (about 68 times an oral human dose of 40 mg on a body surface area basis) or in rabbits at oral doses up to 86 mg/kg/day (about 42 times an oral human dose of 40 mg esomeprazole or 40 mg omeprazole on a body surface area basis) administered during organogenesis. A pre- and postnatal developmental toxicity study in rats with additional endpoints to evaluate bone development was performed with esomeprazole magnesium at oral doses of 14 to 280 mg/kg/day (about 3.4 to 68 times an oral human dose of 40 mg esomeprazole or 40 mg omeprazole on a body surface area basis). Neonatal/early postnatal (birth to weaning) survival was decreased at doses equal to or greater than 138 mg/kg/day (about 34 times an oral human dose of 40 mg esomeprazole or 40 mg omeprazole on a body surface area basis). Body weight and body weight gain were reduced and neurobehavioral or general developmental delays in the immediate post-weaning timeframe were evident at doses equal to or greater than 69 mg/kg/day (about 17 times an oral human dose of 40 mg esomeprazole or 40 mg omeprazole on a body surface area basis). In addition, decreased femur length, width and thickness of cortical bone, decreased thickness of the tibial growth plate and minimal to mild bone marrow hypocellularity were noted at doses equal to or greater than 14 mg/kg/day (about 3.4 times an oral human dose of 40 mg esomeprazole or 40 mg omeprazole on a body surface area basis). Physeal dysplasia in the femur was observed in offspring of rats treated with oral doses of esomeprazole magnesium at doses equal to or greater than 138 mg/kg/day (about 34 times an oral human dose of 40 mg esomeprazole or 40 mg omeprazole on a body surface area basis). Effects on maternal bone were observed in pregnant and lactating rats in the pre- and postnatal toxicity study when esomeprazole magnesium was administered at oral doses of 14 to 280 mg/kg/day (about 3.4 to 68 times an oral human dose of 40 mg esomeprazole or 40 mg omeprazole on a body surface area basis). When rats were dosed from gestational day 7 through weaning on postnatal day 21, a statistically significant decrease in maternal femur weight of up to 14% (as compared to placebo treatment) was observed at doses equal to or greater than 138 mg/kg/day (about 34 times an oral human dose of 40 mg esomeprazole or 40 mg omeprazole on a body surface area basis). A pre- and postnatal development study in rats with esomeprazole strontium (using equimolar doses compared to esomeprazole magnesium study) produced similar results in dams and pups as described above. A follow up developmental toxicity study in rats with further time points to evaluate pup bone development from postnatal day 2 to adulthood was performed with esomeprazole magnesium at oral doses of 280 mg/kg/day (about 68 times an oral human dose of 40 mg on a body surface area basis) where esomeprazole administration was from either gestational day 7 or gestational day 16 until parturition. When maternal administration was confined to gestation only, there were no effects on bone physeal morphology in the offspring at any age. 8.2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited data suggest omeprazole may be present in human milk. There are no clinical data on the effects of omeprazole on the breastfed infant or on milk production. The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother's clinical need for PRILOSEC and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from PRILOSEC or from the underlying maternal condition. 8.4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of PRILOSEC have been established in pediatric patients 1 to 16 years for the treatment of symptomatic GERD, treatment of EE due to acid-mediated GERD, and maintenance of healing of EE due to acid-mediated GERD. Use of PRILOSEC in this age group is supported by adequate and well-controlled studies in adults and uncontrolled safety, efficacy, and pharmacokinetic studies performed in pediatric and adolescent patients [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ), Clinical Studies ( 14.8 )] . The safety and effectiveness of PRILOSEC have been established in pediatric patients 1 month to less than 1 year of age for the treatment of EE due to acid-mediated GERD and is supported by adequate and well-controlled studies in adults and safety, pharmacokinetic, and pharmacodynamic studies performed in pediatric patients [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . In the pediatric population, adverse reactions of the respiratory system were frequently reported in the entire (1 month to 16 year) age group. Otitis media was frequently reported in the 1 month to <1 year age group, fever was frequently reported in the 1 to <2 year age group, and accidental injuries were frequently reported in the 2 to 16 year age group [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . The safety and effectiveness of PRILOSEC have not been established in: • patients less than 1 year of age for: o Treatment of symptomatic GERD o Maintenance of healing of EE due to acid-mediated GERD • pediatric patients for: o Treatment of active duodenal ulcer o H. pylori eradication to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence o Treatment of active benign gastric ulcer o Pathological hypersecretory conditions • patients less than 1 month of age for any indication. Juvenile Animal Data Esomeprazole, an enantiomer of omeprazole, was shown to decrease body weight, body weight gain, femur weight, femur length, and overall growth at oral doses about 34 to 68 times a daily human dose of 40 mg esomeprazole or 40 mg omeprazole based on body surface area in a juvenile rat toxicity study. The animal to human dose multiples are based on the assumption of equal systemic exposure to esomeprazole in humans following oral administration of either 40 mg esomeprazole or 40 mg omeprazole. A 28-day toxicity study with a 14-day recovery phase was conducted in juvenile rats with esomeprazole magnesium at doses of 70 to 280 mg/kg/day (about 17 to 68 times a daily oral human dose of 40 mg esomeprazole or 40 mg omeprazole on a body surface area basis). An increase in the number of deaths at the high dose of 280 mg/kg/day was observed when juvenile rats were administered esomeprazole magnesium from postnatal day 7 through
[truncated]

## Overdosage
10 OVERDOSAGE Reports have been received of overdosage with omeprazole in humans. Doses ranged up to 2400 mg (120 times the usual recommended clinical dose). Manifestations were variable, but included confusion, drowsiness, blurred vision, tachycardia, nausea, vomiting, diaphoresis, flushing, headache, dry mouth, and other adverse reactions similar to those seen in normal clinical experience [see Adverse Reactions ( 6 )] . Symptoms were transient, and no serious clinical outcome has been reported when PRILOSEC was taken alone. No specific antidote for omeprazole overdosage is known. Omeprazole is extensively protein bound and is, therefore, not readily dialyzable. In the event of overdosage, treatment should be symptomatic and supportive. If over-exposure occurs, call your Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222 for current information on the management of poisoning or overdosage.

## Description
11 DESCRIPTION The active ingredient in PRILOSEC (omeprazole magnesium) for delayed-release oral suspension, is 5-Methoxy-2-[[(4-methoxy-3,5-dimethyl-2-pyridinyl)methyl]sulfinyl]-1 H -benzimidazole, magnesium salt (2:1). Omeprazole magnesium is a white to off white powder with a melting point with degradation at 200°C. The salt is slightly soluble (0.25 mg/mL) in water at 25°C, and it is soluble in methanol. The half-life is highly pH dependent. The empirical formula for omeprazole magnesium is (C 17 H 18 N 3 O 3 S) 2 Mg, the molecular weight is 713.12 and the structural formula is: Each packet of PRILOSEC for delayed-release oral suspension contains either 2.5 mg or 10 mg of omeprazole (equivalent to 2.8 mg or 11.2 mg of omeprazole magnesium trihydrate), in the form of enteric-coated granules with the following inactive ingredients: glyceryl monostearate, hydroxypropyl cellulose, hypromellose, magnesium stearate, methacrylic acid copolymer C, polysorbate, sugar spheres, talc, and triethyl citrate, and also inactive granules. The inactive granules are composed of the following ingredients: citric acid, crospovidone, dextrose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, iron oxide and xanthan gum. The omeprazole granules and inactive granules are constituted with water to form a suspension and are given by oral, nasogastric, or direct gastric administration. omeprazole magnesium structural formula

## Clinical pharmacology
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12.1 Mechanism of Action Omeprazole belongs to a class of antisecretory compounds, the substituted benzimidazoles, that suppress gastric acid secretion by specific inhibition of the H + /K + ATPase enzyme system at the secretory surface of the gastric parietal cell. Because this enzyme system is regarded as the acid (proton) pump within the gastric mucosa, omeprazole has been characterized as a gastric acid-pump inhibitor, in that it blocks the final step of acid production. This effect is dose-related and leads to inhibition of both basal and stimulated acid secretion irrespective of the stimulus. 12.2 Pharmacodynamics Antisecretory Activity After oral administration, the onset of the antisecretory effect of omeprazole occurs within one hour, with the maximum effect occurring within two hours. Inhibition of secretion is about 50% of maximum at 24 hours and the duration of inhibition lasts up to 72 hours. The antisecretory effect thus lasts far longer than would be expected from the very short (less than one hour) plasma half-life, apparently due to prolonged binding to the parietal H + /K + ATPase enzyme. When the drug is discontinued, secretory activity returns gradually, over 3 to 5 days. The inhibitory effect of omeprazole on acid secretion increases with repeated once-daily dosing, reaching a plateau after four days. Results from numerous studies of the antisecretory effect of multiple doses of 20 mg and 40 mg of omeprazole in healthy subjects and patients are shown below. The “max” value represents determinations at a time of maximum effect (2 to 6 hours after dosing), while “min” values are those 24 hours after the last dose of omeprazole. Table 5: Range of Mean Values from Multiple Studies of the Mean Antisecretory Effects of Omeprazole After Multiple Daily Dosing Omeprazole 20 mg Omeprazole 40 mg Parameter Max Min Max Min % Decrease in Basal Acid Output 78 Single Studies 58-80 94 80-93 % Decrease in Peak Acid Output 79 50-59 88 62-68 % Decrease in 24-hr. Intragastric Acidity 80-97 92-94 Single daily oral doses of omeprazole ranging from a dose of 10 mg to 40 mg have produced 100% inhibition of 24-hour intragastric acidity in some patients. Serum Gastrin Effects In studies involving more than 200 patients, serum gastrin levels increased during the first 1 to 2 weeks of once-daily administration of therapeutic doses of omeprazole in parallel with inhibition of acid secretion. No further increase in serum gastrin occurred with continued treatment. In comparison with histamine H 2 -receptor antagonists, the median increases produced by 20 mg doses of omeprazole were higher (1.3 to 3.6 fold vs. 1.1 to 1.8 fold increase). Gastrin values returned to pretreatment levels, usually within 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation of therapy. Increased gastrin causes enterochromaffin-like cell hyperplasia and increased serum Chromogranin A (CgA) levels. The increased CgA levels may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . Enterochromaffin-like (ECL) Cell Effects Human gastric biopsy specimens have been obtained from more than 3000 patients (both children and adults) treated with omeprazole in long-term clinical trials. The incidence of ECL cell hyperplasia in these studies increased with time; however, no case of ECL cell carcinoids, dysplasia, or neoplasia has been found in these patients. However, these studies are of insufficient duration and size to rule out the possible influence of long-term administration of omeprazole on the development of any premalignant or malignant conditions. Other Effects Systemic effects of omeprazole in the CNS, cardiovascular and respiratory systems have not been found to date. Omeprazole, given in oral doses of 30 or 40 mg for 2 to 4 weeks, had no effect on thyroid function, carbohydrate metabolism, or circulating levels of parathyroid hormone, cortisol, estradiol, testosterone, prolactin, cholecystokinin or secretin. No effect on gastric emptying of the solid and liquid components of a test meal was demonstrated after a single dose of omeprazole 90 mg. In healthy subjects, a single intravenous dose of omeprazole (0.35 mg/kg) had no effect on intrinsic factor secretion. No systematic dose-dependent effect has been observed on basal or stimulated pepsin output in humans. However, when intragastric pH is maintained at 4.0 or above, basal pepsin output is low, and pepsin activity is decreased. As do other agents that elevate intragastric pH, omeprazole administered for 14 days in healthy subjects produced a significant increase in the intragastric concentrations of viable bacteria. The pattern of the bacterial species was unchanged from that commonly found in saliva. All changes resolved within three days of stopping treatment. The course of Barrett’s esophagus in 106 patients was evaluated in a U.S. double-blind controlled study of PRILOSEC 40 mg twice daily for 12 months followed by 20 mg twice daily for 12 months or ranitidine 300 mg twice daily for 24 months. No clinically significant impact on Barrett’s mucosa by antisecretory therapy was observed. Although neosquamous epithelium developed during antisecretory therapy, complete elimination of Barrett’s mucosa was not achieved. No significant difference was observed between treatment groups in development of dysplasia in Barrett’s mucosa and no patient developed esophageal carcinoma during treatment. No significant differences between treatment groups were observed in development of ECL cell hyperplasia, corpus atrophic gastritis, corpus intestinal metaplasia, or colon polyps exceeding 3 mm in diameter. 12.3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption PRILOSEC for delayed-release oral suspension contains omeprazole magnesium granules and inactive granules to be administered in water. Absorption of omeprazole begins only after the gastro-resistant granules leave the stomach. The pharmacokinetics of omeprazole are time dependent, with higher plasma concentrations at steady state compared to after a single dose. The systemic exposure (AUC and C max ) to omeprazole following once daily dosing of 20 mg delayed-release oral suspension for 5 days is 51% and 58% higher, respectively, than after the first dose. Peak plasma concentrations of omeprazole after repeated doses of delayed-release oral suspension occur within 1.5 to 2 hours. In healthy subjects, the plasma half-life is 0.5 to 1 hour. Distribution Protein binding is approximately 95%. Elimination Metabolism Omeprazole is extensively metabolized by the cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme system. The major part of its metabolism is dependent on the polymorphically expressed CYP2C19, responsible for the formation of hydroxyomeprazole, the major metabolite in plasma. The remaining part is dependent on another specific isoform, CYP3A4, responsible for the formation of omeprazole sulphone. Excretion Following single dose oral administration of a buffered solution of omeprazole, little if any unchanged drug was excreted in urine. The majority of the dose (about 77%) was eliminated in urine as at least six metabolites. Two were identified as hydroxyomeprazole and the corresponding carboxylic acid. The remainder of the dose was recoverable in feces. This implies a significant biliary excretion of the metabolites of omeprazole. Three metabolites have been identified in plasma the sulfide and sulfone derivatives of omeprazole, and hydroxyomeprazole. These metabolites have very little or no antisecretory activity. Combination Therapy with Antimicrobials Omeprazole 40 mg daily was given in combination with clarithromycin 500 mg every 8 hours to healthy adult male subjects. The steady state plasma concentrations of omeprazole were increased (C max , AUC 0-24 , and T 1/2 increases of 30%, 89% and 34% respectively) by the concomitant administration of clarithromycin. The observed increases in omeprazole plasma concentration were associated with the following pharmacological effects. The mean 24-hour gastric pH value was 5.2 when omeprazole was administered alone and 5.7 when co-administered with clarithromycin. The plasma concentrations of clarithromycin and 14-hydroxy-clarithromycin were increased by the concomitant administration of omeprazole. For clarithromycin, the mean C max was 10% greater, the mean C min was 27% greater, and the mean AUC 0-8 was 15% greater when clarithromycin was administered with omeprazole than when clarithromycin was administered alone. Similar results were seen for 14-hydroxy-clarithromycin, the mean C max was 45% greater, the mean C min was 57% greater, and the mean AUC 0-8 was 45% greater. Clarithromycin concentrations in the gastric tissue and mucus were also increased by concomitant administration of omeprazole. Table 6: Clarithromycin Tissue Concentrations 2 hours after Dose Mean ± SD (μg/g) Tissue Clarithromycin Clarithromycin + Omeprazole Antrum 10.48 ± 2.01 (n = 5) 19.96 ± 4.71 (n = 5) Fundus 20.81 ± 7.64 (n = 5) 24.25 ± 6.37 (n = 5) Mucus 4.15 ± 7.74 (n = 4) 39.29 ± 32.79 (n = 4) Specific Populations Geriatric Patients The elimination rate of omeprazole was somewhat decreased in the elderly, and bioavailability was increased. Omeprazole was 76% bioavailable when a single 40 mg oral dose of omeprazole (buffered solution) was administered to healthy elderly volunteers, versus 58% in young volunteers given the same dose. Nearly 70% of the dose was recovered in urine as metabolites of omeprazole and no unchanged drug was detected. The plasma clearance of omeprazole was 250 mL/min (about half that of young volunteers) and its plasma half-life averaged one hour, about twice that of young healthy volunteers. Pediatric Patients 2 to 16 Years of Age The pharmacokinetics of omeprazole have been investigated in pediatric patients 2 to 16 years of age: Table 7: Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Omeprazole Following Single and Repeated Oral Administration in Pediatric Populations Compared with Adults Single or Repeated Oral Dosing/Parameter Children Data from single and repeated dose studies. Doses of 10, 20, and 40 mg omeprazole administered as suspension prepared from omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. ≤ 20 kg 2-5 years 10 mg Children > 20 kg 6-16 years 20 mg Adults Data from a single and repeated dose study. Doses of 10, 20, and 40 mg omeprazole administered as delayed-release capsules. (mean 76 kg) 23-29 years (n=12) Single Dosing C max Plasma concentration adjusted to an oral dose of 1 mg/kg. (ng/mL) 288 (n=10) 495 (n=49) 668 AUC (ng h/mL) 511 (n=7) 1140 (n=32) 1220 Repeated Dosing C max (ng/mL) 539 (n=4) 851 (n=32) 1458 AUC (ng h/mL) 1179 (n=2) 2276 (n=23) 3352 Following comparable mg/kg doses of omeprazole, younger children (2 to 5 years of age) have lower AUCs than children 6 to 16 years of age or adults; AUCs of the latter two groups did not differ [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 )] . 1 to 11 Months of Age A population pharmacokinetics model was used to determine appropriate doses of PRILOSEC in pediatric patients 1 month to less than 1 year of age for treatment (up to 6 weeks) of erosive esophagitis due to acid-mediated GERD. The model was based on data from three studies in 64 children 0.5 month to 16 years of age. Only limited data were available in children younger than the age of 1 year. Omeprazole was administered to the pediatric patients in these studies as an oral suspension prepared from the delayed-release capsules. Pediatric doses were simulated in the age group of 1 to 11 months, to achieve comparable omeprazole exposures with adults following treatment with 20 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )] . Racial or Ethnic Groups [See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with chronic renal impairment (creatinine clearance between 10 and 62 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), the disposition of omeprazole was very similar to that in healthy subjects, although there was a slight increas
[truncated]

## Mechanism of action
12.1 Mechanism of Action Omeprazole belongs to a class of antisecretory compounds, the substituted benzimidazoles, that suppress gastric acid secretion by specific inhibition of the H + /K + ATPase enzyme system at the secretory surface of the gastric parietal cell. Because this enzyme system is regarded as the acid (proton) pump within the gastric mucosa, omeprazole has been characterized as a gastric acid-pump inhibitor, in that it blocks the final step of acid production. This effect is dose-related and leads to inhibition of both basal and stimulated acid secretion irrespective of the stimulus.

## Clinical studies
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14.1 Active Duodenal Ulcer In a multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 147 patients with endoscopically documented duodenal ulcer, the percentage of patients healed (per protocol) at 2 and 4 weeks was significantly higher with omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 20 mg once daily than with placebo (p ≤ 0.01). Treatment of Active Duodenal Ulcer % of Patients Healed omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 20 mg a.m. (n=99) Placebo a.m. (n=48) Week 2 41 (p≤0.01) 13 Week 4 75 27 Complete daytime and nighttime pain relief occurred significantly faster (p ≤ 0.01) in patients treated with omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 20 mg than in patients treated with placebo. At the end of the study, significantly more patients who had received omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules had complete relief of daytime pain (p ≤ 0.05) and nighttime pain (p ≤ 0.01). In a multicenter, double-blind study of 293 patients with endoscopically documented duodenal ulcer, the percentage of patients healed (per protocol) at 4 weeks was significantly higher with omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 20 mg once daily than with ranitidine 150 mg b.i.d. (p < 0.01). Treatment of Active Duodenal Ulcer % of Patients Healed omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 20 mg a.m. (n = 145) Ranitidine 150 mg twice daily (n = 148) Week 2 42 34 Week 4 82 (p < 0.01) 63 Healing occurred significantly faster in patients treated with omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules than in those treated with ranitidine 150 mg b.i.d. (p < 0.01). In a foreign multinational, randomized, double-blind study of 105 patients with endoscopically documented duodenal ulcer, 20 mg and 40 mg of omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules were compared with 150 mg b.i.d. of ranitidine at 2, 4, and 8 weeks. At 2 and 4 weeks, both doses of PRILOSEC were statistically superior (per protocol) to ranitidine, but 40 mg was not superior to 20 mg of omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, and at 8 weeks there was no significant difference between any of the active drugs. Treatment of Active Duodenal Ulcer % of Patients Healed omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules Ranitidine 20 mg (n = 34) 40 mg (n = 36) 150 mg twice daily (n = 35) Week 2 83 (p ≤ 0.01) 83 53 Week 4 97 100 82 Week 8 100 100 94 14.2 H. pylori Eradication in Patients with Duodenal Ulcer Disease Triple Therapy (omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules/clarithromycin/amoxicillin) Three US, randomized, double-blind clinical studies in patients with H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease (n = 558) compared omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules plus clarithromycin plus amoxicillin with clarithromycin plus amoxicillin. Two studies (1 and 2) were conducted in patients with an active duodenal ulcer, and the other study (3) was conducted in patients with a history of a duodenal ulcer in the past 5 years but without an ulcer present at the time of enrollment. The dose regimen in the studies was omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 20 mg twice daily plus clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily plus amoxicillin 1 g twice daily for 10 days; or clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily plus amoxicillin 1 g twice daily for 10 days. In studies 1 and 2, patients who took the omeprazole regimen also received an additional 18 days of omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 20 mg once daily. Endpoints studied were eradication of H. pylori and duodenal ulcer healing (studies 1 and 2 only). H. pylori status was determined by CLOtest ® , histology and culture in all three studies. For a given patient, H. pylori was considered eradicated if at least two of these tests were negative, and none was positive. The combination of omeprazole plus clarithromycin plus amoxicillin was effective in eradicating H. pylori . Table 9: Per- Protocol and Intent-to-Treat H. pylori Eradication Rates % of Patients Cured [95% Confidence Interval] Omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules +clarithromycin +amoxicillin Clarithromycin +amoxicillin Per-Protocol Patients were included in the analysis if they had confirmed duodenal ulcer disease (active ulcer, studies 1 and 2; history of ulcer within 5 years, study 3) and H. pylori infection at baseline defined as at least two of three positive endoscopic tests from CLOtest ® , histology, and/or culture. Patients were included in the analysis if they completed the study. Additionally, if patients dropped out of the study due to an adverse event related to the study drug, they were included in the analysis as failures of therapy. The impact of eradication on ulcer recurrence has not been assessed in patients with a past history of ulcer. Intent-to-Treat Patients were included in the analysis if they had documented H. pylori infection at baseline and had confirmed duodenal ulcer disease. All dropouts were included as failures of therapy. Per-Protocol Intent-to-Treat Study 1 77 (p < 0.05) versus clarithromycin plus amoxicillin. [64, 86] (n = 64) 69 [57, 79] (n = 80) 43 [31, 56] (n = 67) 37 [27, 48] (n = 84) Study 2 78 [67, 88] (n = 65) 73 [61, 82] (n = 77) 41 [29, 54] (n = 68) 36 [26, 47] (n = 83) Study 3 90 [80, 96] (n = 69) 83 [74, 91] (n = 84) 33 [24, 44] (n = 93) 32 [23, 42] (n = 99) Dual Therapy (omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules/clarithromycin) Four randomized, double-blind, multi-center studies (4, 5, 6, and 7) evaluated omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg once daily plus clarithromycin 500 mg three times daily for 14 days, followed by omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 20 mg once daily, (Studies 4, 5, and 7) or by omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg once daily (Study 6) for an additional 14 days in patients with active duodenal ulcer associated with H. pylori . Studies 4 and 5 were conducted in the U.S. and Canada and enrolled 242 and 256 patients, respectively. H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer were confirmed in 219 patients in Study 4 and 228 patients in Study 5. These studies compared the combination regimen to omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules and clarithromycin monotherapies. Studies 6 and 7 were conducted in Europe and enrolled 154 and 215 patients, respectively. H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer were confirmed in 148 patients in Study 6 and 208 patients in Study 7. These studies compared the combination regimen with omeprazole monotherapy. The results for the efficacy analyses for these studies are described below. H. pylori eradication was defined as no positive test (culture or histology) at 4 weeks following the end of treatment, and two negative tests were required to be considered eradicated of H. pylori . In the per-protocol analysis, the following patients were excluded: dropouts, patients with missing H. pylori tests post-treatment, and patients that were not assessed for H. pylori eradication because they were found to have an ulcer at the end of treatment. The combination of omeprazole and clarithromycin was effective in eradicating H. pylori . Table 10: H. pylori Eradication Rates (Per-Protocol Analysis at 4 to 6 Weeks) % of Patients Cured [95% Confidence Interval] Omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules + Clarithromycin Omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules Clarithromycin US Studies Study 4 74 [60, 85] Statistically significantly higher than clarithromycin monotherapy (p < 0.05). , Statistically significantly higher than omeprazole monotherapy (p < 0.05). (n = 53) 0 [0, 7] (n = 54) 31 [18, 47] (n = 42) Study 5 64 [51, 76] , (n = 61) 0 [0, 6] (n = 59) 39 [24, 55] (n = 44) Non US Studies Study 6 83 [71, 92] (n = 60) 1 [0, 7] (n = 74) N/A Study 7 74 [64, 83] (n = 86) 1 [0, 6] (n = 90) N/A Ulcer healing was not significantly different when clarithromycin was added to omeprazole therapy compared with omeprazole therapy alone. The combination of omeprazole and clarithromycin was effective in eradicating H. pylori and reduced duodenal ulcer recurrence. Table 11: Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Rates by H. pylori Eradication Status % of Patients with Ulcer Recurrence H. pylori eradicated H. pylori eradication status assessed at same time point as ulcer recurrence. H. pylori not eradicated US Studies Combined results for omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules + clarithromycin, omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, and clarithromycin treatment arms. 6 months post-treatment Study 4 35 (p ≤ 0.01) versus proportion with duodenal ulcer recurrence who were not H. pylori eradicated. (n=49) 60 (n=88) Study 5 8 (n=53) 60 (n=106) Non US Studies Combined results for omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules + clarithromycin and omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules treatment arms. 6 months post-treatment Study 6 5 (n=43) 46 (n=78) Study 7 6 (n=53) 43 (n=107) 12 months post-treatment Study 6 5 (n=39) 68 (n=71) 14.3 Active Benign Gastric Ulcer In a U.S. multicenter, double-blind study of omeprazole 40 mg once daily, 20 mg once daily, and placebo in 520 patients with endoscopically diagnosed gastric ulcer, the following results were obtained. Treatment of Gastric Ulcer % of Patients Healed (All Patients Treated) omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 20 mg once daily (n = 202) omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg once daily (n = 214) Placebo (n = 104) Week 4 47.5 (p < 0.01) omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg or 20 mg versus placebo. 55.6 30.8 Week 8 74.8 82.7 , (p < 0.05) omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg versus 20 mg. 48.1 For the stratified groups of patients with ulcer size less than or equal to 1 cm, no difference in healing rates between 40 mg and 20 mg was detected at either 4 or 8 weeks. For patients with ulcer size greater than 1 cm, 40 mg was significantly more effective than 20 mg at 8 weeks. In a foreign, multinational, double-blind study of 602 patients with endoscopically diagnosed gastric ulcer, omeprazole 40 mg once daily, 20 mg once daily, and ranitidine 150 mg twice a day were evaluated. Treatment of Gastric Ulcer % of Patients Healed (All Patients Treated) omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 20 mg once daily (n = 200) omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg once daily (n = 187) Ranitidine 150 mg twice daily (n = 199) Week 4 63.5 78.1 (p < 0.01) omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg versus ranitidine. , (p < 0.01) omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg versus 20 mg. 56.3 Week 8 81.5 91.4 , 78.4 14.4 Symptomatic GERD A placebo-controlled study was conducted in Scandinavia to compare the efficacy of omeprazole 20 mg or 10 mg once daily for up to 4 weeks in the treatment of heartburn and other symptoms in GERD patients without EE. Results are shown below. % Successful Symptomatic Outcome Defined as complete resolution of heartburn. omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 20 mg a.m. omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 10 mg a.m. Placebo a.m. All patients 46 (p < 0.005) versus 10 mg. , (p < 0.005) versus placebo. (n = 205) 31 (n = 199) 13 (n = 105) Patients with confirmed GERD 56 , (n = 115) 36 (n = 109) 14 (n = 59) 14.5 EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD In a US multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 20 mg or 40 mg of omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules in patients with symptoms of GERD and endoscopically diagnosed EE of grade 2 or above, the percentage healing rates (per protocol) were as follows: 20 mg omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules (n = 83) 40 mg omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules (n = 87) Placebo (n = 43) Week 4 39 (p < 0.01) omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules versus placebo. 45 7 Week 8 74 75 14 In this study, the 40 mg dose was not superior to the 20 mg dose of omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules in the percentage healing rate. Other controlled clinical trials have also shown that omeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules is effective in se
[truncated]

## How supplied
16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING PRILOSEC (omeprazole magnesium) for delayed-release oral suspension, 2.5 mg or 10 mg omeprazole, is supplied as a unit dose packet containing a fine yellow powder, consisting of white to brownish omeprazole magnesium granules and pale yellow inactive granules. PRILOSEC unit dose packets are supplied as follows: NDC 70515-625-01 unit dose packages of 30: 2.5 mg packets NDC 70515-610-01 unit dose packages of 30: 10 mg packets Storage Store PRILOSEC for delayed-release oral suspension at 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15 – 30°C (59 – 86°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature.]

## Information for patients
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA-approved patient labeling (Medication Guide and Instructions for Use). Acute Tubulointerstitial Nephritis Advise the patient or caregiver to call the patient’s healthcare provider immediately if they experience signs and/or symptoms associated with acute tubulointerstitial nephritis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Clostridium difficile -Associated Diarrhea Advise the patient or caregiver to immediately call the patient’s healthcare provider if they experience diarrhea that does not improve [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Bone Fracture Advise the patient or caregiver to report any fractures, especially of the hip, wrist or spine, to the patient’s healthcare provider [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions Advise the patient or caregiver to discontinue PRILOSEC and report to their healthcare provider at the first appearance of a severe cutaneous adverse reaction or other sign of hypersensitivity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. Cutaneous and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Advise the patient or caregiver to immediately call the patient’s healthcare provider for any new or worsening of symptoms associated with cutaneous or systemic lupus erythematosus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] Cyanocobalamin (Vitamin B-12) Deficiency Advise the patient or caregiver to report any clinical symptoms that may be associated with cyanocobalamin deficiency to the patient’s healthcare provider if they have been receiving PRILOSEC for longer than 3 years [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . Hypomagnesemia and Mineral Metabolism Advise the patient or caregiver to report any clinical symptoms that may be associated with hypomagnesemia, hypocalcemia, and/or hypokalemia to the patient’s healthcare provider, if they have been receiving PRILOSEC for at least 3 months [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] . Drug Interactions Advise patients to report to their healthcare provider if they start treatment with rilpivirine-containing products, clopidogrel, St. John’s Wort or rifampin; or, if they take high-dose methotrexate [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.10 , 5.12 )] . Administration • PRILOSEC is intended to be prepared in water and administered orally or via a nasogastric (NG) or gastric tube, as described in the Medication Guide. • Take PRILOSEC before meals. • Antacids may be used concomitantly with PRILOSEC. • Missed doses: If a dose is missed, administer as soon as possible. However, if the next scheduled dose is due, do not take the missed dose, and take the next dose on time. Do not take two doses at one time to make up for a missed dose.

